Folks. Good afternoon. Today, I’m very proud to be announcing our healthcare and COVID team at a critical time, as we near the end of one of the toughest years we’ve faced as a nation. More than 285,000 dead Americans because of COVID-19 and counting. Last week COVID-19 was the number one cause of death in America. For black, Latino, and Native Americans are nearly three times as likely to die from it. COVID-19 is a mass casualty. For families and friends left behind is a gaping hole in your heart that will never be fully heal. As a country, we’ve been living with this pandemic for so long, we’re at risk of becoming numb to its toll on all of us.
We’re resigned to feel that there’s nothing we can do and we can’t trust one another. That we must accept death, pain and sorrow. We’re in the midst of this deadly pandemic that’s infected almost 15 million Americans. One out of every 22 people in our country, often with devastating consequences of health. At this very moment, what is the outgoing administration asking the Supreme Court to do in the United States Supreme Court? To repeal the entirety of the Affordable Care Act when we need it most. A law that’s on the front lines against the pandemic, protects more than a hundred million Americans who live with pre-existing conditions, which will increase now including those with lung scarring and heart damage as a consequence of COVID-19.
It provides coverage for more than 20 million Americans who get the care they need if they’re showing symptoms of COVID-19. The law that fulfills our moral obligation here in America, healthcare is a right for all, not a privileged for a few. But as all of you know, I know that out of our collective pain, we’re going to find a collective purpose to control the pandemic, to save lives and to heal as a nation. Today, I’m pleased to announce a team that is going to do just that. It’s a team of world-class experts at the top of their fields, crisis tested, defined by a deep sense of duty, honor and patriotism who are already ready to jump in. They’ve been advising me, many of them for a long time, and they’re going to be ready on day one to spare not a single effort to get this pandemic under control. So we can get back to work, get back to our lives, get back to our loved ones.
They’ll lead the COVID-19 response across the government to accelerate testing, fix our supply chain and distribute the vaccine. The work of my economic team, because controlling the pandemic, delivering better healthcare and reviving the economy go hand in hand. They’ll work with my foreign policy and national security teams because we can’t only beat the virus here at home, it must be beaten everywhere, or it comes back to haunt us again. Today, I’m announcing that in consultation with Dr. Tony Fauci, we developed the first three objectives, the new initiative that I’m asking this team to complete once I’m sworn in, in our first 100 days in office. My first 100 days won’t end the COVID-19 virus, I can’t promise that. But we did not get into this mess quickly, we’re not going to get out of it quickly. It’s going to take some time.
But I’m absolutely convinced that in 100 days, we can change the course of the disease and change life in America for the better. First, my first 100 days is going to require, I’m going to ask for a masking plan. Everyone for the first 100 days of my administration to wear a mask. It will start with my sign in order on day one to require masks where I can under the law, like federal buildings, interstate travel on planes, trains and buses. I’ll also be working with the governors and mayors to do the same in their states and their cities. We’re going to require masks wherever possible. But this goes beyond government action.
And so as the new president, I’m going to speak directly to the American people and say what I’m saying now, we need your help. Wear masks for just 100 days. It’s the easiest thing you can do to reduce COVID cases, hospitalizations, and death. Help yourself, your family and your community. Whatever your politics or point of view, mask up for 100 days once we take office. 100 days to make a difference. It’s not a political statement. It’s a patriotic act. It won’t be the end of our efforts, but it’s a necessary and easy beginning, an easy start.
Secondly, this team, this team will help get at the latest at the last 100 million COVID-19 vaccine, at least 100 million COVID vaccine shots into the arms of the American people in the first 100 days. 100 million shots in the first 100 days. And we’ll follow the guidance of science to get the vaccines to those most at risk. That includes healthcare professionals, people in longterm care and as soon as possible, we will include educators. This will be the most efficient mass vaccination plan in U.S. history. I credit everyone who has gotten us up to this point. But developing a vaccine is only one Herculean task. Distributing it is another Herculean task. Vaccines in a vile, only work if they’re injected into an arm of people, especially those most at risk.
This would be one of the hardest and most costly operational challenges in our nation’s history. We’re going to need Congress to fully fund vaccine distribution to all corners of the country, to everyone. I’m encouraged by the bipartisan efforts in Congress around a $900 billion economic relief package, which I’ve said is critical. But this package is only a start for more action early next year. We must also focus significant resources on direct public health response to COVID-19. Our preliminary view of Trump administration’s vaccine distribution plans confirms media reports. Without urgent action by this Congress this month to put sufficient resources into vaccine distribution and manufacturing, which the bipartisan group was working on. There’s a real chance that after an early round of vaccinations, the effort will slow and stall.
Let me repeat. We need Congress to finish the bipartisan work underway now, or millions of Americans may wait months longer to get the vaccine, months longer than they otherwise would have to wait to get the vaccine, vaccination. Look, and then we’re going to need additional action next year to fund the rest of the distribution efforts. We also need the Trump administration to act now though, to purchase the doses it has negotiated with Pfizer and Moderna and to work swiftly to scale, manufacturing to U.S. populations and the world. This can be fixed. If it is fixed, my team will be able to get at least 100 million vaccinations done in my first 100 days.
The third thing I’m going to ask in the 100 days, it should be a national priority to get our kids back into school and keep them in school. If Congress provides the funding we need to protect students, educators, and staff, if states and cities put strong public health measures in place that we all follow, then my team will work to see that a majority of our schools can be open by the end of my first 100 days. That’s right. We’ll look to have the most schools open that we can possibly in 100 days, if Congress provides the funding we need. It’s not a secret how to do it. Masking, vaccinations, opening schools. These are the three key goals for my first 100 days, but we’ll still have much to do in the year ahead and sadly much difficulty as well.
We’ll be far, far from done, yet it’s possible after 100 days we’ll be much further along in the fight against this pandemic. And I’m grateful to the members of my COVID team that I’d like to introduce to you now who will lead the way. I’m really proud of this group. For secretary of health and education, I nominate Javier Becerra, Becerra, excuse me. He currently is the Attorney General of California leading the second largest Justice Department in America, only behind the United States Department of Justice. And for nearly 25 years before that he was a Congressman representing Los Angeles, one of the largest, America’s largest and most diverse cities.
Javier spent a career fighting to expand access to healthcare, reducing racial health disparities, protecting the Affordable Care Act and take on powerful special interests who prey on profit off of people’s health from opioid manufacturers to big tobacco. During this pandemic he’ll protect the safety of the frontline healthcare workers, rooted out the fraud from the bad actors to take advantage of people. And he stood up for homeowners trying to pay their mortgages during this devastating economic crisis. There are things he’s already fought for and accomplished in many cases. And as secretary, HHS secretary, he will skillfully oversee the CDC and the FDA, Medicare and Medicaid. No matter what happens in the Supreme court, he’ll lead our efforts to build on the Affordable Care Act. He’ll work to dramatically expand coverage and take bold steps to lower healthcare and prescription drug costs. Javier is a key leader who leads a key agency charged with protecting the health and wellness of the American people. He’s also the first Latino leading the HHS. The son of a working family class, working class immigrant family that came from Mexico, a true public servant who’s dedicated his career to the service of the people and the service of this country that we all love.
To serve as coordinator of the COVID-19 response team, I’m turning to a world-class manager and leader. I’ve known Jeff for a long time from the first and last days of the Obama and Biden White House and throughout the campaign and now the transition. There’s no one else that you’d want to help manage some of the most consequential and complex priorities of a country.
…some of the most consequential and complex priorities of a country. Director of national economic council for President Obama, acting director for the office of management and budget he’s there, was there, during the great recession, as he went from crisis to recovery, to resurgence in eight years. He was there to lead the team and help implement the Affordable Care Act and get healthcare.gov up, and working at a critical moment. That was a monumental feat that required vision patience, experience, fortitude, and real expertise. Well-respected across the aisle and around the country from business to labor leaders, to entrepreneurs, to educators, chairman of the board, the children’s national medical center, one of the world’s top children’s hospitals, Jeff knows how to build and lead a team, how to identify and solve problems and how to fully mobilize the federal government on behalf of the health, safety, and prosperity of the American people.
Jeff Zients, thank you for be willing to do this again. The surgeon general of the United States, I nominate, a man who could do any of these jobs, I think, but Dr. Vivek Murthy, he’s worked with me for a long time. He’s a renowned physician and research scientist, a trusted national leader on healthcare. And for me, a trusted advisor during the campaign and transition. This will be the second time serving as America’s doctor having served in this role under President Obama. 00:16:36] During his tenure, he took on some of the most pressing public health issues we face,   00:16:43] excuse me, from the opioid crisis, to threats to America’s mental health. I’ve asked Dr. Murphy to serve again as surgeon general, but with expanded responsibilities. He will be a key public voice on the COVID response to restore public trust and faith in science and medicine. One of the reasons doc, I asked you to do this, when you speak people, listen. They trust you. You have a way of communicating.
They can just see it in your eyes. I mean, it sincerely, it’s a really, really important thing to be communicated now, when people aren’t so much doubt. He’ll also be a key advisor to me and help lead all government approach to broader public health issues. We’ve talked a lot about the need to vastly increased focus on mental health of the country, addiction and substance use disorders, social and environmental detriments to health, and much more. So I’m really looking forward. And thank you for doing this above all, I believe as well as any person I’ve ever worked with, Vivek can help restore faith in this country as a place of possibilities, the son of Indian immigrants who raised their children to always believe in the promise of America. Dr. Murphy will be one of my most trusted public health and medical advisers.
And I’m grateful. I mean, this sincerely, Vivek. I’m grateful for your willingness to continue to stay in public service. And for director of the Center for Disease Control, the CDC and prevention, I might add. I appoint Rochelle Walensky. She’s Chief of Infectious Disease at one of the country’s most preeminent hospitals, Massachusetts General in Boston, a distinguished professor at Harvard Medical School and a world-class physician. One of the nations foremost experts on testing, treatment and eradication of viruses. She has served on the front lines, on the COVID crisis. She’s conducted groundbreaking research on vaccine delivery, including how to reach underserved communities that are too often hit first, hardest, and treated last. Dr. Walensky’s work was instrumental in helping the world mitigate the public health crisis of HIV AIDS. It inspired her as a young doctor to pursue her pioneering research in virus containment.
Now she’ll bring her expertise to bear against COVID-19. She’s uniquely qualified to restore morale and public trust. She’ll marshal our finest scientists and public health experts as CDC to turn the tide on this urgent crisis we’re facing today. Because of the pandemic’s disproportionate impact on communities of color, I concluded that I wanted, we needed, a COVID-19 equity task force. To chair that, to chair it, I appoint Dr. Marcella Nunez-Smith. One of the country’s foremost experts on healthcare disparities, Associate Professor of Medicine and Public Health and Management at Yale School of Medicine, founding director of Yale’s Equity Research and Innovation Center. And co-chair of my COVID-19 transition advisory board. Dr. Nunez-Smith will lead our efforts to provide care to the communities most in need and most effected by the pandemic and often overlooked. She’ll ensure that fairness and equity are at the center of every part of our response.
This is a central front in our fight against this pandemic. And I’m grateful Dr. Nunez-Smith will lead this charge. And finally, as both head of my national Institute of Allergy and Infectious Disease and my chief medical advisor on COVID-19, I’m pleased to say that Dr. Tony Fauci will be a member of my COVID team. By now, Tony needs, Dr. Fauci needs no introduction, but he’ll have my gratitude when I’m president, the seventh president, he will have served. We know each other and we’ve known each other for a long time. And I’m so grateful when I called him almost before I asked, he said, “Yes.” I’ve seen him take on HIV AIDS, H1N1, Ebola, Zika, COVID-19 and every infectious disease in between over nearly 40 years of service to our country, Dr. Fauci is trusted, a truth teller, a patriot. Like every good doctor, he’ll tell me what I need to know, not what I want to know, what I need to know, not what I want to know.
This is my core COVID healthcare team. Before January 20th, we’ll be adding more leaders to oversee vaccine distribution, the supply chain, testing, and other key functions to each of you on this team, you have my gratitude. And I mean that, you have my gratitude for answering the call to serve and to your families. I know many of you are making real sacrifices to do this. Thank you. And to your families. I say, thank you directly. We couldn’t do this without them or without you, and the family supporting this. And to the American people I know we’ve all had a lot of sleepless nights this year. So many of you staring at the ceiling at night worrying “My God, what happens? What happens if it strikes my family? What happens if I lose my insurance? What happens? Am I going to be okay? Is my family going to be okay?” All I can tell you is the truth. We’re in a very dark winter things may well get worse before they get better. A vaccine may soon be available.
We need to level with one another. It’ll take longer than we would like to distribute it to all corners of the country, depending on how it gets started off between now and the time I’m sworn in. We’ll need to persuade enough Americans to take the vaccine. Many of them have become very cynical about its usefulness. It’s daunting, but I promise you that we’ll make progress starting on day one. We didn’t get into this mess quickly. It’s going to take time to fix, but we can do this. That’s the truth. I’m telling you the truth, is what this team, Vice President-Elect Harris, and I will always do. Give it to you straight from the shoulder, as Roosevelt used to say. This is the toughest challenge America’s ever faced. One of the toughest. We know that we can overcome and heal together as one nation. For all of you on the front lines, the healthcare professionals, first responders, grocery store workers, delivery truck drivers, educators, parents, our children. I say, thank you, but we can do this. We can do this.
I want to thank you for everything you’ve done to get us through this crisis so far, we’re never going to give up on you, I promise you. We’ll never give up on our country. We can do this. There’s nothing we’ve ever failed to do when we decided to do it together. Together, that’s America. So, all those who’ve lost in this pandemic, all those who are sick and suffering, our hearts go out to you. Many of us know what it’s like. May God bless you all, and may God protect our troops. Thank you for listening. Now, I’d like to turn it over to the team, starting with our next secretary of health and human service. Xavier Becerra. And Xavier, thank you for being willing to take on the responsibility.
Thank you, Vivek.
… of our time, climate change. Excuse me. Like their fellow Cabinet nominees and appointees, members of our environmental and energy team are brilliant. They’re qualified, tested, and they are barrier-busting. Today, the announcement we will make is the sixth of African-American members of our Cabinet, which is a record. After today, our Cabinet won’t just have one or two precedent-breaking appointments, but 12, including today’s long overdue appointment of the first Native American Cabinet Secretary. And welcome. Welcome. Welcome. Thanks for being willing to do this.
Already, there are more people of color in our Cabinet than any Cabinet ever, more women than ever. The Biden-Harris Cabinet, it will be historic, a Cabinet that looks like America, that taps into the best of America, that opens doors and includes the full range of talents we have in this nation. And like the rest of the team today’s nominees are ready on day one, which is essential because we literally have no time to waste.
Just this year, wildfires burned more than five million acres in California and Washington state. Across the West, an area roughly the size of the entire state of New Jersey literally burned to the ground. Intense and powerful hurricanes, tropical storms pummeled Florida, Louisiana, North Carolina, across the Gulf, and along the East Coast. Record floods, hurricane-speed windstorms, and severe droughts ravaged the Midwest, and more Americans see and feel the devastation in big cities, small towns, on coastlines and in farmlands, and red states and in blue.
Look, billions of dollars in damage, homes and memories washed away, small businesses closed for good, crops and farmlands destroyed for the next generation of family farmers, and just last year, the defense department reported that climate change is a direct threat to more than two thirds of our military operational critical installations in the world, particularly in the United States. And this could well be a conservative estimate.
And so many climate and health calamities are colliding all at once. It’s not just a pandemic that keeps people inside. It’s poor air quality. Multiple studies have shown air pollution is associated with the increased risk of death from COVID-19. Folks, we’re in a crisis. Just like we need to be a unified nation in response to COVID-19, we need a unified national response to climate change. We need to meet the moment with the urgency it demands as you would during national emergency. And from this crisis, from these crises, I should say, we need to seize the opportunity to build back and build back better than we were before. That’s what this administration is going to do with the help of these fine people.
When we think about climate change, we think jobs, good-paying union jobs. A key plank of our Build Back Better economy and economic plan is building a modern, climate-resistant infrastructure and a clean energy future. We can put millions of Americans to work, modernizing water, transportation, and energy infrastructure to withstand the impacts of extreme weather. When we think about renewable energy, we see American manufacturers, American workers racing to lead the global market. We see farmers making agriculture first in the world to achieve net-zero emissions and gaining new sources of income in the process on the farm. And we see small businesses and master electricians designing and installing innovative, energy-conserving buildings and homes. We’re going to reduce electric consumption and save hundreds of thousands of dollars a year in energy costs. And we will challenge everyone, everyone to step up.
And we’ll bring America back, back into the Paris Agreement, and put us back in the business of leading the world on climate change again. The current administration reversed the Obama-Biden fuel-efficiency standards and picked Big Oil companies over American workers. Our administration will not only bring those standards back. We’ll set new, ambitious standards that our workers are ready to meet today.
We see American workers building and installing over 500,000 electric vehicle charging stations across this country. We see American consumers switching to electrical vehicles through rebates and incentives. And not only that, the federal government owns a maintains an enormous fleet of vehicles. We’re going to harness the purchasing power of our federal government to make sure we’re buying clean electric vehicles that are made and sourced by union workers right here in America. Altogether, this will mean one million, one million new jobs in the American auto industry.
And we’ll do another big thing, put us on a path of achieving a carbon- pollution-free electric sector by the year 2035 that no future president can turn back. Transforming the American electric sector to produce power without carbon pollution will be the greatest spur to job creation and economic competitiveness in the 21st century, not to mention the benefits to our health and our environment.
But we need to get to work. We got to get to work right away. We’ll need scientists at national labs, land-grant universities, historic Black colleges and universities to innovate the technologies needed to generate, store, and transmit this clean energy. We’ll need engineers to design them, workers to manufacture them. We’ll need iron workers and welders to install them. That’s how we’re going to become the world’s largest exporter of these technologies, creating even more jobs.
We know how to do this. The Obama-Biden administration reduced the auto industry and …   00:06:31] rescued the automobile industry while reducing pollution and, at the same time, helped them retool. We made solar cost competitive with traditional energy, weatherized more than a million homes. Recovery Act made record clean energy investments, $90 billion, on everything from smart grid systems to clean energy manufacturing, and we’re going to do it again, but this time bigger, faster, and better than before.
We’re also going to build 1.5 million new energy-efficient homes and public housing units that will benefit our communities three times over by alleviating the affordable housing crisis, by increasing energy efficiency, and by reducing the racial wealth gap linked to home ownership. We’re going to create more than a quarter-million jobs right away to do things like working toward plugging the 3,200,000 abandoned oil and gas Wells that the EPA says pose an ongoing threat to the health and safety of our communities. They’re going to be good-paying union jobs doing that.
We’re going to launch a new, modern-day Civilian Climate Corps to heal our public lands and make us less vulnerable to wildfires and floods. And I believe that every American has a fundamental right to breathe clean air and drink clean water. I know that we haven’t fulfilled that right. No, we haven’t fulfilled that right for a generation or more in places like Cancer Alley in Louisiana or right here in my state along Route 9, the Delaware Corridor.
Fulfilling this basic obligation to all Americans, especially low-income white, Black, brown, and Native American communities who too often don’t have the clean air and clean water … It’s not going to be easy, but it’s absolutely necessary. And we are committed to facing climate change by delivering environmental justice. These aren’t pie-in-the-sky dreams. These are concrete, actionable solutions, and the team’s going to get it done.
For the Secretary of the Interior, I nominate Congresswoman Deb Haaland. She’s of the Pueblo people, only 35 generations in New Mexico, and she’s from a military family. Her mom, also Pueblo, served in the United States Navy. Her dad, a Norwegian American and Marine, now buried in Arlington. A single mom, she raised her child while running a small business. When times were tough, they relied on food stamps. Congresswoman Haaland graduated from law school and then got involved in politics, public life.
Two years ago, she became one of the first Native American women to serve in the United States Congress. She serves on the Armed Service Committee and the Committee on Natural Resources and chairs the subcommittee on National Parks, Forests, and Public Lands, which I have an incredibly sincere interest in. Where she learned, she learned and she earned the respect of a broad coalition of people from tribal leaders to environmental groups to labor.
As the first Native American Cabinet Secretary in the history of United States of America, she’ll be a true steward of our national parks, our natural resources, and all of our lands. The federal government has long broken promises to Native American tribes, who’ve been on this land since time immemorial. With her appointment, Congresswoman Haaland will help me strengthen the nation-to-nation relationship, and I’m honored to accept … She’s been willing when I called her to accept this critical role. Again, Deb, thank you for doing this.
For Secretary of Energy, I nominate Governor Jennifer Granholm, first woman … Where is Jennifer? Back there. She’s a great friend as well … first woman ever to serve as governor of Michigan. In 2009, she faced the collapse of the defining industry of her state and our nation, but I saw firsthand how she responded. She bet on the auto workers. She bet on the promise of a clean energy future. Her leadership helped rescue the automobile industry in the United States of America, helped save a million American jobs. It helped bring Detroit back.
Governor Granholm is just like the state she’s led so efficiently and effectively for eight years, hard-working, resilient, and forward-thinking, someone not only capable of solving urgent problems, but someone who sees the opportunities of the future, and always, always with her eyes on the needs and aspirations of working people. We’ve become friends over time together throughout her career.
She’s worked with states, cities, business, and labor to promote clean energy future with new jobs, new industry, cleaner and more affordable energy. Now I am asking her to bring that vision and faith in America to the Department of Energy. Thank you   00:11:45]. I appreciate it a bunch.
For Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency, I nominate Michael Regan. Michael is a proud son of North Carolina. He turned a passion for exploring the woods and waters and Inner Coastal Plain into a deep expertise in environmental science. He got his start at the EPA serving with both Democrat and Republican administrations, working in everything from reducing air pollution to improving energy efficiency. He currently serves as Secretary of North Carolina’s Department of Environmental Quality. When the governor told me how wonderful he was, I don’t think he expected that I was going to try to steal him, but Governor, thank you very much for putting up with me. But in Environmental Quality, he’s brought to the people across the public and private and nonprofit sectors to help build new clean energy economy, creating quality jobs and confronting climate change.
He led the charge to clean up the Cape Fear River, contaminated for years by dangerous toxic chemicals. He created North Carolina’s first board of its kind to address environmental justice and equality and equity. It helps lift up frontline and fenceline communities. They’re those communities that live along … that literally have fences separating them from the plants that are polluting, chemical and other plants that are polluting … helps lift up those frontline and fenceline communities who carried the burdens of industrial progress for much too long without sharing in any of the benefits.
Michael would be the second African-American official and the first African-American man to serve in this position. He shares my belief in forming consensus and finding common purpose. He’s a leader who will respect the EPA’s place as the world’s premier environmental protection agency and reassert that as the world premier agency that safeguards our entire planet, protects our lives, and strengthens our economy for all Americans.
And to chair the Council on Environmental Quality, I nominate Brenda Mallory, an accomplished public servant, brilliant environmental-
An accomplished public servant, brilliant environmental lawyer, daughter of a working class family who has dedicated her life to solving the most complex environmental challenges facing America. She’s served in both Democratic and Republican administrations, helping safeguard our public lands, helping communities manage the natural resources responsibilities.
Chairman of the CEO, Council of Economic Quality, I’m asking her to coordinate our environmental efforts across the entire federal government to solve some of the most persistent environmental problems America faces today. Brenda would be the first African-American official to hold this critical position. We are fortunate that one of the most widely respected environmental leaders in the country accepted the call to serve again. Thank you. Thank you, thank you, thank you. To serve as the first ever national climate advisor.
By the way, when we were in the back, we were talking about the environment, and I turned and said that this particular person’s forgotten more about the environment than most people know. I wasn’t sure she was going to do it, but the first ever national climate advisor to lead the newly formed White House Office of Domestic Policy, I’m appointing Gina McCarthy.
Gina was the former EPA administrator. In this role she led the office. It shows how serious I am to ask her to come back, and it shows how committed she is to be willing to come back. Gina has got more than 20 years of experience, and she’s a policy wonk and a people person, a problem solver, and a coalition builder. As EPA administrator, she was instrumental in carrying out the Obama Biden climate action plan, reducing greenhouse gas emissions, getting toxins out of the air we breathe, conserving critical water sources. She led our effort to help lower carbon emissions of existing power plants and power plants in the future. We’re doing the necessary work here at home. She helped us rally the world around the Paris Climate Accords.
Today, I’m asking her to take a singular focus on carrying out the ambitious climate agenda here at home and working with my special envoy, former secretary of state John Kerry, who leads our climate effort around the world. I’m grateful that she agreed to do it. I’m looking forward to working alongside her again. I used to drive her crazy when I was vice president, always calling, asking all these questions, and she’s thinking, “My god, what’s he going to do as president?”
To serve as our national climate advisor, I appoint Ali Zandi … Zaidi, excuse me. Ali, you can call me Bidden. If I mispronounced your last name. I apologize. He served as a top climate advisor to president Obama and me in the office with managing the budget and the domestic policy council. He helped draft and implement our climate action plan and secure the Paris Climate Agreement. He currently serves as New York deputy secretary of energy and environment and the state’s chairman of climate policy and finance. He’s helping to create jobs generating solar and wind power, jobs building electric charging stations, and a more modern grid of bold climate action grounded in science, economic and public health. He’s an immigrant from Pakistan who grew up in the rust belt outside of Erie, Pennsylvania. I was from the better part of the state in Northeast, the Scranton and Pittsburgh area.
All kidding aside, he knows we can beat climate crisis and we can do it with jobs. He knows we can deliver environmental justice and revitalize communities as well, too often overlooked and forgotten, and every day, he’ll walk into the White House knowing the world is looking for America to lead.
I say to each one of you, thank you for answering the call, and thank you to your families. We could not do this without them. We couldn’t do it without you. To the career civil servants at the agencies, I know many of you have felt forgotten for a long time. We look forward to working with you, to once again carrying out your department’s mission and honoring the integrity of the offices in the organization you’re involved with.
To the American people, yes, the goals I’ve laid out are bold, the challenges ahead are daunting, but I want you to know that we can do this. We must do this, and we will do this. We are America. There’s nothing we can’t do when we do it together. So I say again to all of you, God bless you all, may God protect our troops, and now I’m going to turn this to the team, starting with our next Secretary of the Interior, congresswomen Deb Haaland. Deb, the floor is yours once they clean off …
Thank you. Thank you. I’m proud to stand here on the ancestral homelands of the Lenape tribal nation. The President-elect and vice president-elect are committed to a diverse cabinet, and I’m honored and humbled to accept their nomination for Secretary of the Interior.
They’re my good luck charms. They’re my heart. And Marcy and Joyce and Tim Ryan. Tim, you over there too? Hey, Tim. Tim, you’ve been so great the whole campaign. Thank you very, very, very much. And he as tough as nails. They’re all incredible leaders and we need to send them back to Congress, every single one of them.
Folks, I want to thank my buddy, Sherrod Brown. No one fights harder for the dignity of working people than Sherrod does. Sherrod won reelection in ’18 about at the same margin that Trump did. And so when Sherrod tells me to come to Ohio the day before, I come to Ohio. That’s what I do because he and I have something in common. We married way up. He married a Pulitzer prize winner. I married a professor, and I tell you what, Connie you’ve been wonderful. Connie actually reviewed my wife’s book, I found out.
Anyway, I want to thank you for being here. Folks, Ohio, one more day, one more day. Tomorrow. Tomorrow we have an opportunity to put an annual presidency. That’s divided this nation. Tomorrow we can put an ad to a president as has failed to protect this nation. And tomorrow we can put it down to a president who has fanned the flames of hate all across this country. Millions of Americans have already voted. Almost a hundred million have voted so far, a hundred million voted already, and more are going to vote today. And my message is simple. The power to change the country is in your hands. I don’t care how much Donald Trump tries, there’s nothing, nothing…
No matter how much Donald Trump tries, there’s nothing, nothing he’s going to do to stop the people in this nation from voting. Folks, he hasn’t figured it out. Presidents don’t determine who gets to vote. Voters determine who’s going to be the president. When America votes, America will be heard. When America is heard, I believe the message is going to be loud and clear. It’s time for Donald Trump to pack his bags and go home. We’re done. We’re done with the chaos. We’re done with the tweets, the anger, the hate, the failure, the irresponsibility. We’ve got a whole lot of work to do.
When I’m elected your president, I’m going to act, and I’m going to act on day one. Folks, we’re going to act to get this COVID under control. On day one of my presidency, we’re going to put it in action a plan that I’ve been talking about for months, and he’s been paying no attention to. Masking, social distancing, testing, tracing. A plan for a fair and full and free distribution of therapeutics and vaccines, when we get one. Imagine, imagine where we’d be, had this president, from the beginning, just wore a mask instead of mock wearing a mask.
I can tell you this. We wouldn’t have 9 million confirmed COVID cases in this nation, wouldn’t have over 230,000 deaths, wouldn’t be seen those new record numbers of cases we’re seeing every single day, right now. Nearly 100,000 cases in one day, just two days ago. 100,000 new cases. We wouldn’t be facing another 200,000 projected deaths in the next few months.
This president knew, last January, the virus was deadly, but he hid it from the American people. He knew it was worse than the flu. He lied to the American people. He knew it wasn’t going to disappear, but he kept telling us a miracle was coming. And just Friday, you had the gall… Figure this, now. The president of the United States of America, who’s responsible for so many deaths, he had the gall to suggest that American doctors, the people who have been on the front lines of this crisis for nine months, along with nurses and so many others, many of whom have died, to suggest that doctors are falsely inflating deaths due to COVID because they want to make more money.
I’m serious, man. This guy’s a disgrace. The people of this nation have suffered. They’ve sacrificed for nine months, not more than those doctors and nurses and those healthcare workers. And this president is questioning their character, their integrity, their commitment to their fellow Americans. As I said, it’s a disgrace. And last night, Trump said he was going to fire Dr. Fauci. Isn’t that wonderful? I got a better idea. Elect me, and I’m going to hire Dr. Fauci, and we’re going to fire Donald Trump.
Donald Trump waved the white flag of surrender to this virus. He did that. His own chief of staff said, last week, we’re giving up on the virus. We’re not going to do anything about it. I’m never going to raise the white flag and surrender. We’re going to beat this virus. We’re going to get it under control, I promise you. Look, the first step to beating the virus is beating Donald Trump.
Donald Trump keeps telling us what a great jobs president he is. I was just with Barack in Detroit and Flint. It was great to be with a president of some character, a president respected around the world, a president our kids could and did look up to. But did you know that, after President Obama and I bet on American workers and helped rescue the auto industry, nearly 500,000 jobs created here in Ohio. Meanwhile, 330,000 of those have been lost since Trump’s become president. You know, Donald Trump is going to be the first president in 90 years… that’s a lot of presidents… in 90 years, is going to finish his four years in office with fewer jobs than when he got elected to office.
It’s no surprise. Remember the lies he told all the workers. He told the families of the GM plant in Lordstown. He said, “Don’t move. Don’t sell your house.” But then the plant shut down. And after the first debate in Cleveland, I met an Ohio woman named Tiffany whose husband lost their job at the plant. And he had to take a job eight hours away in another state. He drives home weekends, 16 hours round trip, to be home with his kids. So much for “Don’t worry.”
What about his threat and his grudge against Goodyear? What about his broken promise to protect pensions for workers, especially   00:14:35] employer pensions? And what about… He stopped the overtime for millions of American workers, over $1,200,000,000 for American workers, the president and I was helping your delegation put in place. But let’s not forget how Donald Trump is wreaking chaotic with China on trade. Farm bankruptcies are way up. Exports are way down. Agricultural exports to China during the Trump years have been 40% lower than they were when we were in our second term.
And he even says, because of his bailouts to the farmers… that’s your tax dollars, by the way… his bailout of the farmers, “Our farmers are doing better now than when they actually had a farm.” Can you believe that? Our farmers are doing better now than when they actually had a farm because they were able to be bailed out, although they may not have a farm anymore.
Who does this guy think he is? My policies are going to hold China accountable. I’ll end the Trump tax loopholes that incentivized companies to ship jobs overseas. I’ll add a 10% surtax on companies who do ship jobs overseas. But for companies who bring and come back and invest in American manufacturing and bring jobs back home, I’ll offer a 10% tax credit. And folks, it’s no violation of any trade agreement, but no government contracts. And the president has about $600 billion in contracts from the military on down. No government contract will be given it to a company that isn’t have all the products, including the supply line, all products made in America, every product.
Look, and our future will be made right here, right here in Ohio. Folks, we’re in a position that we can do so much more, so much more. Folks, Donald Trump forgot and betrayed Ohio workers. Quite frankly, I grew up around guys like Donald Trump. I grew up in neighborhoods like probably many of you did, working class neighborhoods where most people didn’t have a college education. But we had guys like Trump we used to play against, when we played ball and Scranton and. And because they had more money than we did, they kind of look down their nose on us.
I got to admit to you. I got a bit of a chip on my shoulder, when I read about… Once we won the nomination and things began to look a little better, I read from serious press people… they’re decent, honorable people… that if I get elected, I’ll be the first president who didn’t have an Ivy League degree, in a long time. Well, let me tell you something. Somehow that’s got to mean I didn’t belong, because I went to a state university. But let me tell you what. It’s about time a guy from a state university graduated into the White House because, if I’m there, you’re going to be there, too. Look, Trump sees the world from Park Avenue, looking down-
Trump sees the world from Park Avenue, looking down on Wall Street. I see it from Scranton and Claymont, where I grew up. I shaved from here in Cleveland. Wall Street didn’t build America, the middle class built America. And guess what? Unions built the middle class. That’s a fact. The day is long past time, we start rewarding work, not wealth in this country. Under my plan, if you make less than $400,000, you won’t pay a single penny, more in taxes. You have my word on it. But I tell you what, the wealthiest of MOS, big corporations, 91 of which don’t pay any tax, that paid zero federal income tax. They’re going to start paying their fair share. Why? Listen to me, why should a firefighter, an educator, a cop, why should a welder, why should a steel worker pay the higher tax rate than the super wealthy?
It’s not right. Why should you pay for taxes than Donald Trump for God’s sake? Look, I released 22 years of my tax returns. You can look them up online. Donald Trump didn’t release any. Wonder what the hell he’s hiding. I wonder why he won’t let anybody know what his tax returns are. Who’s he owe the money to? This is the guy, by the way we found out recently has a secret bank account in China. Paid 50 times more tax in Beijing than he did in the United States. And overall, the one income tax the New York Times got, he paid $750 in federal taxes. How about you? And when he was asked how he could pay so little, remember what he said? He said, “because I’m smart. I know how to game the system.” And that’s the kind of guy you want as president? That can game the system, be a billionaire pay 750 bucks in taxes. While you all break your necks, break your necks to pay a fair share.
We’re going to act to protect healthcare by the way. Trump and Republicans just jammed through a new Supreme Court nomination for one basic reason. Within a week after the election, they’re going to be before the Supreme Court and this new nominee is going to be out of the court. It’s all about destroying the Affordable Care Act, getting rid of it completely. They’ve been trying to do it now for nine years, if they get their way, 100 million Americans will lose protections for preexisting conditions, including nearly 5 million folks here in Ohio. Look, Donald Trump doesn’t understand healthcare. He thinks it’s a privilege. I think healthcare is a right.
By the way, because of the way he ruined the economy, even before the pandemic, 10 million Americans have already lost their employer-based healthcare because the employer has gone out of business. Now he wants to go after the 22 million, who have healthcare only because of the Affordable Care Act. I’m not only restore the Affordable Care Act, I’ll build on it. You can keep your private insurance, or you can choose a Medicare-like public option in the new plan. I’m going to increase subsidies and lower premiums and deductibles, out of pocket expenses and surprise billings. We’re going to reduce drug costs by 60% by allowing Medicare to negotiate drug prices for all of us. Folks, folks, it’s going to cost more money, but guess how I’m going to pay for it? Trump’s going to start paying some taxes.
We’re going to make sure we keep protections for people with pre-existing conditions. Meanwhile, the Social Security expert, the person the Social Security department says if Donald Trump’s plan that he announced, if he’s reelected, he’s going to put in place, if in fact it’s put in place, it would bankrupt Social Security by 2023. This guy really cares a lot about this, doesn’t he? He really understands,   00:22:56] my parents before me and everyone else paying into Social Security. So go home and tell your parents and grandparents, what a great deal they’re going to get if Trump gets reelected. But folks, the fact is I’m going to protect your Social Security. I guarantee it. Because I got people behind me who’re going to make sure it’s protected. We’re going to protect Social Security, and we’re going to have a situation where guess what? We have a majority in the United States Senate. Well, folks, look, the thing that’s bothered me most, maybe emotionally bothered me the most, but substantively as well. That this president has done, there’s been nothing worse than the way he’s spoken about those who have served in uniform. He called you all losers and suckers. My son Beau was the attorney general of the state of Delaware. My son Beau volunteered. He had to give up the seat of attorney general to volunteer, to go to Iraq for a year. He won the Bronze Star, the Conspicuous Service Medal, and he saw the people die in Iraq. He was not a loser. He was not a sucker, he was a Patriot, just like all your sons and daughters, parents, or grandparents who served. Folks, six generals who worked in the white house with the president of United States and admirals worked in his administration have since left. And they’ve said he is unfit to be Commander in Chief. Best of my knowledge, that’s never happened before for any president of the United States. And that’s why special operations commander Stanley McChrystal, as well as the commander special ops and the Navy Seals who took out Brin Laden, along Bill McRaven, 
Asmiral McRaven, along with 22 other four stars, they’ve endorsed me saying they’d be proud to have me as their Commander in Chief.
This president likes to portray himself as a tough guy, a macho man. When the last time you saw a president of United States, literally being laughed at by the world leaders when he spoke to the United Nations? I don’t ever recall that ever happening. Can you believe when the president of United States, who acts like Vladimir Putin’s puppy, Putin put bounties on the heads of American soldiers in Afghanistan. Trump spoke to him six times and he was too frightened to challenge him. Why? Donald Trump is not strong, he’s weak. This is a president who not only doesn’t understand sacrifice, he doesn’t understand courage. Physical courage it takes for so many of you to put on that uniform. We must support our military. Let’s make this vote for them as well. God love them.
We have to vote to meet the challenge, the climate crisis as well. We can act to meet that climate crisis. Trump calls the climate crisis a hoax. I see it as a great opportunity to improve our health as well as great millions of good paying jobs. I see America’s working to build and install 500,000 charging stations all across this country. American consumers switching to clean electric vehicles. We can own the electric vehicle market, creating minutes of jobs here in Cleveland and in Ohio and in Detroit.
Folks, I see the federal government harnessing the purchasing power by buying these electric vehicles. Made in America, made in Ohio, made in Detroit, made in America-
Made in Ohio, made in Detroit, made in America. It’s going to mean one million, according to the experts, one million new good paying auto jobs in the automobile industry alone. Folks, if we don’t act China’s going to own the market. China’s going to own it all. And we will act, in addition to deliver racial justice in America. Folks, protesting is not burning and looting, violence must never be tolerated and it won’t, but these protests are a cry for justice. The names of George Floyd, Breonna Taylor, Jacob Blake will soon not be forgotten. You know I’ve met with all these families. Well I met with Floyd’s little girl, I think she was six years old. I knelt down to say, or to be at eye level with her. She looked at me and she said, I swear to God, said, “Mr. Vice President, my daddy is going to change in the world. My dad is going to change the world.”
Folks, I’m not going to forget. You’re not going to forget. This country’s not going to forget. This is going to inspire a new wave of justice in America. But guess what? Because we have the X generation, I mean the Z generation, that in fact is the most open, least prejudice, best educated generation in American history. They’re already moving. They’re already insisting on justice. They know who we are. A new wave of justice America, but also true justice isn’t just about how they deal with police, it’s about jobs. It’s about building wealth. It’s about families. It’s about education. It’s about opportunity. It’s about being able to make a decent living. Nobody should have to work two jobs to stay out of poverty. That’s why, honk if you agree with me that a $15 minimum wage is necessary nationwide. Honk.
Honk, if you think assistance for a down payment, for a real shot of home ownership should be coming forward with me with $15,000 for first time homeowner, to start a small business, send the child to college debt-free. Folks, Ohio in 2008, 2012, you place your trust in me and Barrack. In 2020, I’m asking you to trust me again. I’m proud of the coalition this campaign is built. To welcome Democrats, Republicans and Independents. I’m running as a proud Democrat, but I’ll govern as an American president. There will be no red States and blue States, just the United States.
And I promise you I’ll work as hard for those who don’t support me as those who do. That’s the job of a president, to care, to care about everybody, everybody. That’s the duty of a president. And look, you too, have a duty, a duty to vote. Folks, make a plan, go to Iwillvote.com/OH. Folks, the amazing thing about this moment in our history, on the one hand, we’re facing the biggest threat of who we are, what we believe, and what we seen, what we’ve been in our lifetimes. Another hand, our future has never been more promising. I’ve said it many times, the character of America is literally on the ballot.
The character of our country, but I’m more optimistic about America’s future today than when I was elected to the United States Senate as a 29 year-old kid. Let me tell you why. We are better positioned than any nation in the world to lead the 21st century. Our workers are three times as productive as other workers. We have the biggest economy in the world. We have the strongest military in the history of the world. We have the most innovative entrepreneurs in the world and we are virtually energy independent. We have more great research universities in America than all the rest of the world combined, out of which all these doing inventions have occurred.
No other nation can match us. We lead by the example of our power, not just by the power of our example. The only thing that can tear America apart is America itself. And that’s exactly what Donald Trump has tried to do from the beginning of his campaign, divide America. The only way he can win, separate us. Pit Americans against one another based on race, gender, ethnicity, national origin. It’s wrong. It’s not who we are, but it’s his only prospect.
Everybody knows who Donald Trump is. Let’s keep showing them who we are. We choose hope over fear. We choose unity over division. We choose science over fiction and yes, we choose truth over lies. Folks, it’s time to stand up. It’s time to take back our democracy. We can do this. We’re so much better than this. We can be our best, ladies and gentlemen. This is the United States of America. There’s not a damn thing we can’t do, nothing. So let’s get up and do it. God bless you all and may God protect our troops. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you.
Hi everybody.
Good afternoon.
Well thank you all, all four of you for being part of this. One of the things about COVID that’s changed is that usually I’d be out in the community, looking you in the eye and trying to figure out what was on your mind, I’d be going to your restaurants, your unions, making sure that I had a clear understanding of what you were facing, because it’s all personal. Every one of you is dealing with something that is very personal and affects all of you differently, although in one sense everybody is affected the same way.
I want to thank you for joining me today, and for sharing with me what you and your families are going through, and I know times are both tough, but I believe that with the right policies we can fundamentally change things. And my hope is that we’ll be able to help in a short order. But that depends a lot on our friends in Congress on the other side who are prepared to take the action that has to be taken.
When I think about the economy, I don’t think about the gross domestic product or the state of the stock market, I think about families like yours, families like mine, families like I grew up in, where my dad, when he lost his job when I was a kid in Scranton, Pennsylvania, when coal died, he was not a coal miner, but he worked there, and when the economy collapsed we moved down to a little steel town called … About … 
My dad, Me and my siblings, I was the oldest, I probably the only one that really fully understood it early on, was he said, “Joey, a job’s about a lot more than a paycheck. It’s about your dignity. It’s about respect. It’s about your place in the community. It’s about being able to look your kids, your family, your friends in the eye and say, ‘I think everything’s going to be okay.'” And he also used to say, “Joey, I don’t expect the government to solve my problems, but I at least expect them to understand my problems, so they understand what it is so I know they have a way of at least they’re working on what I’m concerned about.”
So that’s what I want to hear from you all today, about the challenges you individually are experiencing. I know you’re all experiencing the effect of one great problem, and that is the economic downturn in large part because of COVID, and the failure of some of our friends in Congress to move forward on the kind of economic package that was passed and needed to help people. But the challenges you’ve experienced affects everybody the same but slightly differently. And I want to hear, to the extent you’re willing to be straightforward with me, and tell me about what your real, deep concerns are, I’d like to hear it. It would help me inform my policy.
And I’ve been doing this on a regular basis, meeting with people who are victims of this economic downturn through no fault of their own, have done everything, worked like heck their whole lives, and find themselves in a real dilemma right now. So with that, why don’t I, as my mother used to say, “Hush up, Joey,” and hear from you all. And then maybe I could, as you’re talking, after you finish, maybe ask you some questions. And you all can ask me questions as well in the process here, okay?
But let’s just have a candid talk, because I got involved in public life way back when I was a kid because of civil rights and because of ordinary working people and middle class people who really built this country. The very wealthy, they’re a lot of good people, but they don’t need my help. But families I came from need my help, and just need a shot, just a chance, just a chance to make it. When they’ve had that chance, they’ve never let the country down.
Having said all that, why don’t I be quiet, and I’ll let you start, Cecilia, you tell me who’s talking first, and we’ll go from there, okay?
Thank you, Lorie. I’ll come back, ask some questions if I may, but I’ll wait until we get through it all.
Karen, can I ask you a question before we go on? Do you have reason to believe that if the industry comes back, that is your employers are able to open up again and have full service again, that they’re not going to bring back their other employees? Do you have reason to believe that?
Well, you ought to talk to your union. I think your union probably does know that they’re likely-
Well my … Okay.
Well, I think it’s going to be hard for them to not hire back the existing workforce if they’re able to hire people back. But that’s a different, I’ll look into that. But I have other questions later. Thank you.
Thank you, Dan.
Well, let me start by saying, I’m going to be completely blunt with you and frank, about what’s available, what’s not, what should be and what shouldn’t be. To state the obvious, my ability to get you help immediately does not exist. I’m not even in office for another 50 days and then I have to get legislation passed through the United States Congress to get things done. But I can lay out what I want to do. Let me tell you what I think should be done in the meantime. Number one, there is what they call this lame duck session, a fancy word for saying the administration has changed, the Congress has changed, but the people who were there the past two years remain there until January 21st, when I would…
Remain there until January 21st, when I would take office, after being sworn in on January 20th. There’s been an attempt to be able to provide for help, in the meantime. One of my greatest concerns has been the failure to deal with COVID to begin with. Had we taken the action we should have taken back in late January, February, March, and April, to deal with the disease, the disease which the president said would go away, “It will go away by Easter. When the hot weather comes, it may be gone. Don’t worry about it. It’s going to be like a miracle, it’s going to go away.” None of that was true to begin with. And it was all designed, in my view, to make sure that it didn’t spook the stock market, which doesn’t affect a lot of you unless you have a 401k and even then it doesn’t affect you that much. And so we didn’t do the things that had to be done in order to be able to protect people’s lives, and to dampen down, flatten out this curve, and begin to make real progress on getting rid of the disease.
At the bottom rung, that still is a single most consequential thing that has to be done. We could provide all the aid in the world, and your restaurants aren’t going to be good and open unless people decide they’re all going to show up anyway and get COVID, if they’re in close proximity to one another. And the States are not going to be able to fund the school crossing guards, which are essential workers, and the teachers, and the first responders, the cops, the firefighters, the EMTs, et cetera, because the cities have to balance their budgets, and the good smart thing about our founders, although it was over 200 years ago, that’s why they allowed the federal government to deficit spend. That is, in moments of crisis, to be able to spend money on the, so that in fact, we could get the economy moving again, which has happened in every great recession that we’ve had.
But what happened is that we’re now in a situation where the Congress and these CARES Acts that they passed, they passed a couple of trillion dollars worth of help. And one of the big problems was that help went to a lot of people who didn’t need the help; the PPP, and the PPE, the equipment went to places that were doing pretty well. They didn’t go to the people who badly needed it early on. Some of it did, but not nearly what it should have. And I think your experience Dan, was that first time you went for the PPP loan, you went to a major bank and they decided they weren’t going to fund it. If I’m not mistaken.
Well, you may remember because you seem to be attuned with what’s going on in the news, I argued that that was going to happen because the big banks, even though they weren’t liable for any of this money, they were getting it, we bailed them out in the past, you know? They’re being held harmless. It was too much trouble to take the time to lend it. They’d ask you, “Do you have a credit card with us? Do you have an account with us? Have you borrowed with us before? Or do you have a system?” And by the time you get answers to all that, the answer is basically, “No, we’re not going to lend to you,” and you’re in trouble. You’re already behind the eight ball.
And so first point of this is that I think that the Congress they’re trying like the devil, there was a bipartisan effort it’s been happening now, time and again, a bipartisan effort that came forward about three, four or five days ago, that called for instead of the $1.6 trillion at the House thought, I think is 1.6, Cecilia, I can’t remember the exact number, in the new bill that they passed. “New,” back in May they passed it. And they finally decided, they negotiated something for about 900 billion. Wouldn’t be the answer, but it’d bring immediate help for a lot of things quickly. But what happened was the president said he wouldn’t support it, and apparently Republicans in the Congress, the Senate said they wouldn’t support it. So it’s now back to square one again. And what our friends seem to be focusing most on is liability. Guaranteed, there’s no liability for businesses if in fact they open, anything happens.
And anyway, it’s a long story, but here’s the deal; one of the things that we think should happen and continue is that no-one should be evicted from their apartment or their home for being able to fail, to be able to pay their rent and/or their mortgage until this crisis is over. And it should be funded, that should be held up. Now, you can’t deny the apartment owner, he or she’s not have just pockets that are so deep they can afford to pay everything and not have anything, so it was supposed to be paid for. Paid for, not a loan, to be paid for in a crisis. This is a national crisis. This is a national crisis that we’re facing, and it affects the entire economy. So the first thing is rent, and you just your housing, your basic housing, are you able to maintain without being worried you’re going to be getting notice you’re thrown out in the street.
Number two, and if you’re fortunate enough to own your home, that’s a different thing or own your condominium, that’s a different thing. Second thing is that there was a proposal we put forward that suggested that already over 10 million people have lost their health insurance because their businesses went out of business. So the business can’t pay anybody, the business is out of business. So it’s basically bankrupt. So they’re not able to participate in paying for that. And so that’s a lot of wonky language, but there was a proposal to said that we would, in fact, the federal government, pay the share that the business used to pay for the employee, so they could keep that health insurance policy they had, and until things got better.
Thirdly, we find that the president is still in court, trying to strip away all of healthcare from the Affordable Care Act, just flat, eliminate it, all get rid of it all. It’s deadly wrong. I think not only should we keep it, we should be adding to it, providing for a public option, a Medicare option if you chose that, if you can’t afford to buy in, then you’re in a situation where you get Medicare, Medicaid, if you’re eligible for Medicaid and your state doesn’t provide it, you get it for free, period. And so there’s two ways to deal with healthcare. One is to supplement the businesses that are going out of business, or can’t afford to keep their health insurance for their employees. And secondly, to make sure we make it a lot easier to buy into the Affordable Healthcare Act and get more coverage with a lot cheaper, with drug prices coming down substantially, as well as making sure that there’s a Medicaid option, a Medicare option in the healthcare plan. That’s what I ran on. That’s the one of the reasons I think I got the nomination. And so that’s going to be one of my first efforts as well when I get elected, it’s not going to happen between now and then. Third thing that it seems to me, is the unemployment with their $600 kick in is really important. It’s the thing that allows people to stay above water, give some sense of security. It’s not like there’s a lot of jobs you’re going to go do. Like, “Oh you’re sitting home being lazy.” Well, where the heck are you going to go get a job? Every one of you, if there are another job out there that could pay you something, be out applying for it. But it just makes no sense. But it’s some of our very conservative friends think that, the same people who think you should have to, if you need what used to be called, “Food stamps,” you should have to work to be able to do inaudible, I mean, come on, we’re way beyond that.
And so there’s a number of things that could be done. And in terms of being able to open your restaurants, first of all, my deceased wife’s father was a restaurateur. After World War II he came home and became a very successful restaurateur. And I watched how hard he worked, and that made me realize I never want to be in the restaurant business. You think I’m joking? You guys, men and women have to love it. It is a God awful thing. Especially if you have a 24 hour diner like my father-in-law had. Plus making sure that all those folks who had the contracts to serve the universities and their food system, what’s happening to them now? They’re all in trouble as well. There’s nothing there, because these universities are shutting down, and they’re all going virtual.
So we’ve got to provide for you the ability to open, and open safely, and there’s ways to do that, and it should not be a loan; it should be a guarantee. You should be in a position where you can have all that ventilation changed, all the dividers put up, all the social distancing that you need, and make sure that your staff is safe as well, both indoors and out. But it costs a lot of money to do that, and you should be able to get that money to be able to stay open, because it affects the ability of the economy to continue to grow. What people don’t realize is putting this money into the economy generates economic growth. It’s not just you have a debt; you do, but it generates so much growth when you’re a restaurant employees able to go out and buy a used car, you go out and make sure they can get their first apartment, make sure they can go out and purchase new clothing. It all relates to everybody else does better. So that’s why, for example, with my proposal, I know my Republican friends say everybody’s a big spending Democrat, well, the point is that even the Wall Street types, like [Moody’s 00:43:38] point out that my proposal would create 18.6 million new jobs, good paying jobs and would increase the economy by a trillion dollar economic growth.
So what’s though, and the big thing for [Laurie 00:00:43:56], and state workers is, one of the most important things we have to do is we have to deal with giving state and local governments assistance. You may remember, all but one of you are old enough to remember when we had the Great Recession in 2008, that we had Barack and I inherited from the last administration. It was the most significant recession in the history of the United States, short of a depression. And what happened was, we went out and the president of put me in charge of spending, we were able to convince three Republicans to change their votes, and we passed the bill, it turned out to be $84 billion that had to be spent in 18 months to keep the economy from crashing. It kept us from out of the depression. And by the way, even the conservative think tanks pointed out of less than 2/10th of 1% waste or fraud. I handle that on a daily basis every single day. I talked over 165 mayors I talked to every governor but one, on a constant basis 
about how they could spend the money. And what happened was it generated economic growth. People came back.
Well, that was federal money, and I’ll be out of that federal money, 147 billion, I was able to give to the States and the cities, who showed they had a need, because they are laying off permanently their teachers, their firefighters, their law enforcement officers, their first responders, shutting down local mental health clinics, shutting down small hospitals, and that all relates to people’s health, safety, and wellbeing.
And I guess the point is, the full Congress should come together and pass a robust package of relief to address your urgent needs now. That means extending unemployment insurance for Laurie, and Jessica and Karen, and the millions of Americans like them who’ve lost their jobs, or ours, through no fault of their own. And that’s going to help you put food on the table, and pay the bills. You’re going to make sure businesses like yours, Dan have the resources they need in addition to the guidance and health and safety standards to open safely. Open safely. And that will help businesses stay open, hire workers, like all of you. Thirdly, we have to provide States and cities, the funding. So workers like Laurie can go back to work as her job as school crossing guard, keeping children safe. And we have to make sure, fourthly, people came evicted from their homes because they can’t pay their rent or their mortgage payment during the pandemic.
This isn’t a political game. This impacts on people’s real lives, and families. It impacts on all of you, all of us, and we need to get help out the door as soon as we can. And Americans like you need relief now. So I’ve been urging our congressional Republicans to work on a bipartisan emergency package now, but any package passed in this so-called, “Lame duck”   00:47:15] be now in January 21st, at best is only going to be a down payment on what’s going to happen early next year. My transition team is already working on what I will put forward the next Congress to address the multiple crises we’re facing, especially the economic crisis and COVID. Come January, the vice-president elect and I are going to fight every day for your families. That’s my commitment. And one of the things we don’t talk about is there is a profound increase, as you all know, in depression, profound increase, quite frankly, in suicide rates, a profound increase in increased drug abuse, a profound increase in, quite frankly, 
abuse against-
And quite frankly, abuse against women and children in households. And so there’s an awful lot of people, including our doctors and nurses, who need additional mental assistance. The doctors and nurses talking to me are telling me how many of them, when they’re in an operating room, or they’re critical care nurses, how many times can they hold the hand of person who’s dying, and hold they’re hand, and know that that woman or man can’t even talk to, can’t see, they may hold up a phone, their son, their daughter, their husband, their wife, their child. I mean, it’s one of those things that is profoundly destabilizing.
And so there’s a lot we have to do to keep these people, keep them up. Now the only good… not the only one of them, good news pieces here is, and it really is, is that, as you probably have been reading, I, early on, put together a COVID taskforce of the most significant scientists in the area. I think there are… how many we have on it now? 23 members, something like that.
And these are the leading doctors in the world, happen to be in the United States. And there’s two things that are happening for real. One, help is on the way in terms of vaccines. But the vaccine is not the most important thing, it’s the vaccination. It’s one thing to pay, and the government have people show up and get the vaccine that’s been delivered to the state capital or to hospitals, wherever it’s going to be delivered, another thing to get that vaccine from the vaccine, and I don’t want to scare anybody, but into the arm, to get a vaccination.
That’s a really expensive proposition. We’re talking about having to make sure over 340 million Americans, and others I might add, have to access to that vaccination. And so that’s going to rapidly, God willing, once we have it, be able to get out, and be able to change the way in which we no longer have to shut down like we did. And what’s happening is, and I hope you all are listening with all the trouble you’re going through. You cannot be traveling during these holidays, as much as you want to.
I have a large family, you probably… Barack used to kid me about it. I mean, everything for me is family, beginning, middle, and end. When one comes, everybody comes. You think I’m joking, I’m not. We would have 16 people go away every Thanksgiving. And my deceased son, before he passed away, we’d all go away and we’d go away on Thanksgiving to be just a nuclear family, mom, dad, sons, daughters, husbands, wives, grandchildren, and we, the first time, we had a Thanksgiving with my wife and myself, my daughter in the region and her husband, who’s a doctor, in the region. That’s it. All my other kids, everybody else in the family was on Zoom on Thanksgiving, which doesn’t…
Well Christmas is going to be a lot harder. And I don’t want to scare anybody here, but understand the facts. We’re likely to lose another 250,000 people dead between now and January. You hear me? Because people aren’t paying attention. People aren’t paying attention. You are Dan, you’re not letting people congregate inside your restaurant. You know what that would mean. But there’s ways we have to bring down the virus, we have to bring down the replication rate of it, how many… Anyway, and we have to significantly increase testing.
And there’s a lot of things we can do by the spring to be able to get everybody back in the swing of things, and people being able to safely open, and safely be with one another. But look, I know I’m… Trump always made fun of me, I’m always wearing this mask. But let me tell you something, it matters. It’s not about saving my life, it’s about saving your life. When I have this mask on I have the heavy one underneath it. When I have this mask on, it’s less about me being safe, it’s about me making sure that you are safe. It’s a patriotic thing to do, it really is.
I hear all this about, ” Well, it’s a great sacrifice of my freedom.” Well tell that to all the people who went to WWI and gave their lives, and WWII, and the Korean War, and tell… I mean, come on. You’re helping other people. It’s not you. It’s other people. Other people. And so I think we have to change the mindset here a little bit. It’s got to be about giving. About giving. You know that old expression from the Bible, ” What you do to the least of brethren you do unto me.” Well that’s what this is about. I’m not trying to proselytize and convert anybody to anything, but this is basic human decency. Just decency.
So look, I promise you, the things that I’m going to be working on very, very hard are first and foremost getting the billions of dollars that are needed to get COVID under control, get the vaccine distributed, get it out quickly, and get it to the most urgent people, most urgently needed, and that happens to be people who are in nursing homes, because there’s significantly high proportion of those are in the mortality side of things. And the number of people who have died in nursing homes exceeds about anything else. And I have to get it to those doctors and nurses, who by the way, are losing their lives. Their lives. A lot of them, not a joke.
It’s about those first responders, driving those ambulances, making sure that they’re showing up. It’s about that fireman going into a burning vehicle and pulling somebody out and not asking, “Do you have COVID or don’t you have COVID?” I mean, we have to get that. And then to get to the school teachers and small businesses to be able to open, because small business is the economic engine of the country, and restaurants are a major part of that small business, a major part of that small businesses. So I just think that Karen, I know this has a lot of emotional strain on you and everybody else.
But imagine what it’s like if you weren’t even a member of a union.
No, I know that, but my point is, that’s the last point I want to make. America is built by the working folks and middle class. And unions built the middle class, and look at all the people who aren’t represented, so don’t have any possibility, talk about a pension, what pension? I remember my dad coming home and saying, “Well, started this pension, the company, he just decided to stop it. Boom, done, over.” Or, remember him rolling around in the bed at night and asking my mom what was the matter. And she said, “Dad’s upset because we lost our health insurance.” You know what I mean?
This is stuff that has a profound impact on people’s minds, on their sense of themselves. And so, but here’s the… I don’t want you giving up hope. I really don’t want you giving up hope. I promise you, hang on, we’re going to get through this. You’re going to get through this. It’s going to be hard as hell for the next 50 to 70 days unless the House acts in some way, the Senate acts and passes some of this material. And Dan, I think we got to go back and look at all the businesses that have gone out of business, and look at all, particularly, [Menardi 00:56:44] businesses.
I know you have something like four out of six black business going out of business. Whether it’s the local grocery store or it’s the beauty salon, or whatever. It’s the center of communities. Most of you are from fairly large cities. Well there’s a lot of rural areas that are really getting crushed. They don’t have anything going for them. We can fix it. And I think when we fix it we got to go back and try to make up for what we didn’t do for you all, what we didn’t do, so people aren’t left with staggering amounts of debt, staggering amounts of… As they go through.
So anyway, as my… Every time I walk out of my grandpa’s house up in Scranton, Pennsylvania, he was a good guy, and he’d yell, “Joey, keep the faith.” And my grandmother would yell, “No Joey, spread the faith.” You’ve got to spread the faith a little bit.
No, I really mean it. I promise you, I promise you, watch. I always try to do what I say I’m going to do, and if I make a mistake I’ll tell you I made a mistake and I’ll take responsibility. It’s the responsibility of the president of the United States to set the agenda as to how we deal with this crisis. It’s the responsibility… guidepost for how people can move forward. Instead of leaving it to every… And the mayors and governors are working like hell, Democrat and Republican. They’re working like hell.
But, but, they need more guidance and more help. And that’s what my job is as the Commander in Chief. I view this as sort of a standing army we got to put together to deal with this. But we all know, you’ve all been through not just this crisis, many of you have been through difficult times in your life in other ways. We all have dealt with pain. But it’s kind of a… The human condition is that… I believe why we’re going to do okay is, it’s always a bad bet to bet against the United States. The United States is all about possibilities. There’s never anything we’ve tried to do together we haven’t been able to get done. We’ll get this done.
My fear and concern is, how many people may get left by the wayside in the meantime. And that’s the job we have to step up now to do whatever we can now. And by the way, look at all that’s going on. Look at what’s happening in major cities in America, where you see where there’s prosperity, you see miles and miles and miles and miles of automobiles lined up to get food. The food shortage in the United States, lack of access, is overwhelming. Like you said Jessica, people in line, and stepping… Or maybe it was you Karen, standing in line and backing up to let somebody else move.
The American people are showing their grit, and it’s about time the government show it. So anyways, we have a way of trying to keep in touch with you, I know we got in touch with you, Cecilia has it, and I’d like to be able to continue to do that if I can, to see how you’re doing, if that’s okay, all right?
Thank you. Okay.
All right, bye, bye.



