We present our nation’s highest civilian honor, the Presidential Medal of Freedom to one of the greatest wrestlers in American history, Iowa legend, Dan Gable. He has been an incredible inspiration to so many people. We’re joined today by Dan’s wonderful wife, Kathy, and they’re incredible and large family, including 13 grandchildren. Thank you very much. Thank you Kathy, very much. It’s a great honor for us too. Thank you for being here. We’re also joined by Iowa senators, Chuck Grassley. Where’s Chuck? Chuck, congratulations on everything. Chuck and Joni Ernst, who just had a big victory. Thank you, Joni. What a job, what a job. They had you down a couple of points and you won by a lot.
It’s one of those things that you really, you should be very proud of yourself. You campaigned hard, and that was a tremendous victory. Thank you very much. Also, representatives Jim Jordan. Where’s Jim? A great wrestler, a really great wrestler. I won’t go over the record because the only way you’re not great is compared to this guy, perhaps, but he’s a warrior in every way and we appreciate you being here and Markwayne Mullin. Thank you very much for being here and I’m glad your son is doing well and setting records also. These two guys are great. They’re really, really fantastic people.
Dan was born and raised in the working class town of Waterloo, Iowa. His mother said she knew Dan would be a wrestler the day they brought him home from the hospital. Even as an infant, Dan refused to let his back even touch the ground. That’s sort of an interesting statement, probably so. At four years old, his parents sent him to the local YMCA where he learned to swim, wrestle, and play football.
When he reached high school, Dan decided to commit himself entirely to wrestling. His coach quickly saw his unmatched intensity and gave Dan the keys to the gym so he could come first thing in the morning to practice. At first, Dan was alone, but as he achieved one victory after another, the rest of the team followed his lead. He worked hard, but he was also born with something very special. It’s called talent, and talent, you either have it or you don’t. During his time in high school, Dan’s beloved sister, Diane, toughest time in his life was murdered. Afterwards, Dan poured even more of his energy into wrestling and his exceptional success brought happiness and pride to his family, especially in overcoming this incredible heartbreak that they had with what happened to Diane.
As a high school wrestler, Dan went 64 and zero, not losing a single match. I have to say, Jim Jordan told me all about, I knew all about Dan, but he told me things that are pretty amazing, right, Jim? Pretty amazing. Dan then attended Iowa State where he secured two NCAA wrestling championships, National Wrestling Championships, three Big Eight titles and became a three-time All-American. He won 117 consecutive matches and lost only one. Well, in politics I won two, so I’m two and O and that’s pretty good too, but we’ll see how that turns out. After that lone defeat, Dan vowed that it wasn’t going to happen again. He couldn’t stand the feeling of losing a match. He rededicated himself to mastering the sport and soon adapted his wrestling style to reach new heights of greatness. Sports Illustrated labeled Dan the hardest working athlete in the world by far, and detailed his rigorous routine of working out two to three times a day, every single day of the week. They estimated the Dan produced 60 pounds of
sweat every seven days. That’s a lot. I’m not sure I want to hear about it, but that’s a lot. That’s a lot of work.
In his pursuit of perfection, Dan suffered multiple injuries. His nose, multiple fingers were broken and his feet were very tough stuff. He pushed every single muscle to the absolute limit. Nobody’s ever done it like him, but his unwavering grit and focus, it propelled him forward through all of that adversity, tremendous adversity. Before matches, Dan would repeat the words, “Cakes, carries, ducks, picks, shucks, sweeps,” over and over again. I have to ask Dan, why, why Dan?
Oh wow.
That’s pretty good.
Wow. Well, you did the … Whatever it was. You did the right thing. He had only two things in mind, scoring and dominating. In the midst of the Cold War, he was selected to represent team USA at the 1972 Munich Olympics. The leader of the Soviet wrestling team proclaimed that he would search the USSR and find a wrestler that would defeat Dan Gable. That was his big ambition, and they found somebody that was considered one of the greatest anywhere in the world, but they failed. Dan won every match and did not give up a single point. How many matches in the Olympics, Dan?
You won every match and you didn’t give up a point?
That’s a record. That’s a record I think that still stands. To do that, did the Russian in the final did not get a point?
What did you win that one by?
That’s okay. That’s pretty good. What do you think, Jim? Have you ever heard of when you go six matches and don’t give up a point against great talent?
You watched it, right?
That’s amazing. To me, that’s amazing. Not giving up a single point. He toppled Soviet preeminence in the sport at that time. Russia’s, they had the greatest wrestlers in the world they thought, except for Dan. They sort of felt they couldn’t beat him. Defeated their wrestler in that final match and took home the Olympic gold medal. As a wrestler, Dan said a pin streak record of 25 consecutive pins. Now, I’m larger than you a little bit. You think I could take you in wrestling? Huh? Would I have a big advantage?
What do you think? I agree. Do you agree with that, John? I do. I agree.
He’s the expert. That is held to this day, 25 consecutive pins. He was also the first American to win consecutive world at Olympic titles. Dan went on to coach at the University of Iowa where he secured 355 victories and 15 NCAA team titles. Jim Jordan told me that he was the greatest wrestler ever, but he may have been a better coach, right Jim? Now, has any team in any sport ever won 15 NCAA team titles because I don’t know. I mean, I think that’s a lot that’s more than UCLA in basketball, right?
I think it’s incredible. His team scored an average of 17 victories for every loss and he was named the University of Iowa’s all-time winning winningest coach. I think probably … You look all over the country. It would be the all-time winningest coach, so that’s incredible, 15 NCAA titles. As a coach, Dan has trained, guided and mentored 152 All-American athletes, 106 Big 10 champions, 45 national champions and 12 Olympians. He was also the head coach of three US Olympic teams. Dan has said, quote, “I never jumped for joy as a player, but I always jumped for joy as a coach.” Other words, he did his job, but he was really rooting for those other people to do theirs. That’s great, Dan. It’s a great statement. Dan has been inducted into the USA Wrestling Hall of Fame, the United States Olympic Hall of Fame, the National Wrestling Hall of Fame, and the United World Wrestling Hall of Fame.
In 2013, he helped ensure that wrestling remained a very important top Olympic sport. The National Wrestling Hall of Fame has built a Dan Gable Museum in Dan’s hometown. A permanent reminder of the incredible journey that started in the great state Iowa. I love Iowa. I love Iowa and I knew those polls were wrong. They had me losing Iowa, Dan, and we won Iowa by a lot. There were a lot of polls that were wrong. I love that state. No one has done more to promote wrestling in America than Dan Gable. He’s an athletic giant who conquered one the most difficult in ancient sports in the world. He’s the greatest wrestler probably ever. We’ve never had anybody like him. He’s made our country very proud and he is a true goat. You know what goat is, goat? Greatest of all time, right? He’s the greatest of all time. Today, in recognition of his really exceptional achievements, Dan will become the first wrestler in history to receive this, our most important award, along with the Congressional Medal of Honor.
I would now like to ask the military aid to step forward to present Coach Dan Gable with the Presidential Medal of Freedom, but before doing that, I’d like to have Dan say a few words, please. Thank you, Dan, please.
I heard he is doing well. I just spoke to him. He is doing very well, no temperature. He actually called me early this morning. He was the first call I got. Now, he’s doing very well. That’s another champion, greatest mayor in the history of New York. What he’s doing now is more important. He will admit that. He was the greatest mayor, did a fantastic job, especially when you see what’s going on nowadays, Dan. Rudy Giuliani was a great, great mayor and what he’s doing now, and he will say it is even more important.
Well, I think the case already been made. If you look at the polls, it was a rigged election. You look at the different states, the election was totally rigged. It’s a disgrace to our country. It’s like a third world country. These ballots pouring in from everywhere using machinery that nobody knows, ownership nobody knows anything about. They have glitches as they call them. Glitches, with glitches, who aren’t glitches. They got caught sending out thousands of votes all against me, by the way. Now, this was like from a third world nation. I think the case has been made and now we find out what we can do about it, but you’ll see a lot of big things happening over the next couple of days. Very importantly, we’re here for a different reason. We’re here to present our highest achievement, really something that really speaks to such incredible achievement to a man who really is a great man and a great figure in sports, not just wrestling, in sports, one of our greatest athletes of all time. I just want to say it’s an honor to be with you. Thank you. Thank you very much. Thank you everybody. Appreciate it.
Thank you very much. This is a very big announcement. The biggest ever concerning drugs and drug pricing. So today, I have to tell you it’s a great honor for me to announce that my administration is issuing two groundbreaking rules to very dramatically lower the price of prescription drugs for the American people. Especially for our cherish seniors. We’re pleased to be joined on this occasion by Secretary of Health and Human Services, Alex Azar, an administrator of Center for Medicare, Medicaid Services, Seema Verma. Thank you both. Thank you both. And thank you all for being here. Appreciate it.
The unprecedented reforms we’re completing today are the direct result of the historic drug pricing executive orders I signed in July. Statutorily, we had to go through a very long process, and we got it done. I was very proud to have gotten this done. We were pushing it very hard, as we did with the vaccines and other things.
The first action will save American seniors billions of dollars by preventing middlemen, famous middleman they call them, from ripping off Medicare patients with high prescription prices. Currently, drug companies provide large discounts on the price of prescription medicines, including nearly $40 billion in rebates to Medicare part D plans last year alone. Yet often, middlemen stop those discounts from going to the patients, which is what we’re interested in and not the middlemen, who need it the most. So the patients are going to be now getting the benefit, instead of these very wealthy individuals. Patients pay very high prices. And they have for many years, although we brought it down. Now, first time in 51 years with the cost adding up to hundreds or even thousands of dollars per year per patient. Today’s action ends this injustice and requires that these discounts go directly to people. These are the people that need it.
This will save patients up to 30%, could be 40%, could be 50%, could be much higher than that. These are numbers that nobody’s ever even contemplated. And that doesn’t include life-saving drugs like insulin, which will be even higher. Insulin was destroying lives and destroying families because the cost was so high. And now, it’s at a level that nobody can even believe. Is that correct, Seema?
The second rule, we’re finalizing today will transform the way the US government pays for drugs to end global freeloading on the backs of American citizens and American patients. Until now, Americans have often been charged more than twice as much for the exact same drugs as other medically advanced countries. We would be having a drug, identical drug, same company, and we’d pay many times the price of what that drug would sell for in certain countries. In case after case, our citizens pay massively higher prices and other nations pay for the same exact pill from the same factory. Effectively, subsidizing socialism abroad with skyrocketing prices at home. So we would spend tremendous amounts of money in order to provide inexpensive drugs to another country. And when I say the price is different, you can see some examples where the price is beyond anything, four times, five times different. For example, Medicare part B recipients are forced to spend five times more for a common breast cancer medication than patients in other countries, so five times more. And we have other examples that are substantially higher than that.
To address this unfairness and to lower prices for Americans, we’re finalizing the Most Favored Nation Rule. Remember that name, Most Favored Nation Rule. Nobody’s ever done this. The drug companies don’t like me too much, but we had to do it. It took it a long time before we were able to do this because statutorily, we had to go through a process. But there will never be anything like this. I just hope they keep it. I hope they have the courage to keep it because the powerful drug lobby, big pharma is putting pressure on people, like you wouldn’t believe. Medicare will now look at the price that other developed nations pay for their drugs. And instead of paying the highest price on the list, and we are substantially higher than any other country in the world, we will pay the lowest price. In other words, we take the lowest price and we match whatever the lowest price is. Leading to colossal savings for all Americans. And we’re talking about savings of 50, 60, 70%, 80%, different drugs, different prices.
In addition, today, we’re taking one more historic action to hold down drug prices. In the past, drug companies have been allowed to identify certain very old generic drugs, that have been widely available for decades and exploited a misguided program called Unapproved Drugs Initiative. That’s Unapproved Drugs Initiative, a program that has been around for a long time, and hasn’t been too good the people that were supposed to benefit. To obtain market exclusivity on these medicines, so we are doing something that nobody thought anybody would do. The savings is going to be incredible. Then they’ve jacked up the prices by as much as 1000 to 5000% on this product. This program has also caused shortages of important medicines. Today, I’m announcing that we are ending the Unapproved Drugs Initiative program to stop this unfair practice. So prices are lifted by 1000% to 5000%. In one or two cases, even more than that. And we’re ending this, we are putting an end to it.
Together these reforms will save American patients, many, many billions of dollars every single year. For generations, the American people have been abused by big pharma and their army of lawyers, lobbyists, and bought and paid for politicians. But I’ve been loyal to the special interests. I’ve been loyal to our patients and our people that need drugs, prescription drugs, and devoted myself to completely fighting for the American people. You’ll see that this is not an easy thing to do. Big pharma ran millions of dollars of negative advertisements against me during the campaign, which I won, by the way. But we’ll find that out. Almost 74 million votes. We had big pharma against us. We had the media against us. We had big tech against us. We had a lot of dishonesty against us. But big pharma alone ran millions and millions of dollars in ads. In fact, I looked at it and I said, who is it? I’ve never seen anything quite like it.
Because I told them I’m going to have to do this. I was put here to do it job. And Pfizer and others were way ahead on vaccines. You wouldn’t have a vaccine, if it weren’t for me for another four years. Because FDA would have never been able to do what they did, what I forced them to do. And Pfizer and others even decided to not assess the results of their vaccine. In other words, not come out with a vaccine until just after the election. That’s because of what I did with favorite nations and these other elements. Instead of their original plan to assess the data in October. So they were going to come out in October. But they decided to delay it because of what I’m doing, which is fine with me because frankly, this is just a very big thing, a very big thing. What I’m doing here. I don’t know if anyone’s going to appreciate it. These people can’t even believe it, Alex, even you can’t believe it. Can you? Look at you.
So they waited and waited and waited, and they thought they could come out with it a few days after the election. And it would have probably had an impact. Who knows? Maybe it wouldn’t have. I’m sure they would’ve found the ballot someplace, the Democrats and the group. These corrupt games will not deter us from doing what is right for the American people. And I will always put American patients first. And I think it can never be shown better than what I’m doing today. Already, we successfully lowered drug prices for the first time in 51 years. In September, we finalized a rule allowing states, wholesalers, and pharmacies to safely and legally import drugs from Canada. Career politicians have promised to institute this reform for decades. But we got it done.
The reason Canada… And this is going to be, I think, just a short term fix because until we have the Favored Nations fully ready, which we hope to be in January 1st… I think a very important thing to say January 1st, it’s right around the corner. But I’m giving governors the right to go to Canada because they’ll pay approximately 50% less for their drugs that they buy for their states. So the governors buying drugs for their states, go to Canada. They buy the drugs for very, very much less. And they’ll be able to pass that on to the people of Florida. Ron DeSantis was the first one to ask. But others are asking also. And it’s a great thing. You’ll save 50%. They’re going to buy a lot from Canada initially. And I think ultimately, they’ll be comparing prices. You’ll get the lowest price anywhere in the world. So you won’t need to buy from Canada.
In a few weeks, my administration will also finalize rules requiring federally funded health centers to pass drug company discounts and insulin and EpiPens directly to patients. And the EpiPen prices come way down. We remember those horrible stories about EpiPen. Well, the price has now come way, way, way down. We kept insulin costs for many seniors at just $35 a month. As I said, saving them an average of nearly $500 to a thousand dollars a year, just on insulin, saving a thousand dollars a year on insulin. Since I took office, we’ve reduced Medicare part D premiums by 12%, putting nearly $2 billion back into seniors pockets. Now, 12% is great by any standard, but 12% is peanuts compared to what we’ve done with Favorite Nations. I think it’s probably the biggest story that we’ve ever had relative to drug prices. There’s never been anything like this. This is something that has been talked about for many years. But nobody had the courage to do it because of the power of big pharma.
We ended the Gag clauses that prevented pharmacists from telling patients how to buy less expensive drugs. As you know, pharmacists could not talk to patients about how to buy drugs. How about that one? Think that’s right? And now they can and should. We approved a record number of affordable generic drugs for three years in a row. And we put a very heavy emphasis on generic drugs. And the pricing there has become very good, but that pricing will also go down very substantially. No administration has ever fought harder or achieved more for our patients and for our seniors, but for America, when you think of it, for America. Because other countries were paying a fraction of what we were paying. In some cases, a small fraction. The numbers were just staggering. The difference between going to… I won’t name nations, but I could name five of them, right off the top of my head. That it is so incredible to think about for years what was happening. We’ve been working on this for two years. Statutorily, we had to go through a process. But when you think that our nation for the exact same pill out of the exact same box, often made in the exact same factory, same company, and you take a look at the cost was so much more, many, many times more.
In four short years, we’ve instituted the most dramatic series of drug pricing reforms in decades. And you’ll see that it all comes to fruition right now, starting in January 1st. And the American people benefit from our actions for many, many decades. And it should be very immediate. Now, I presume they’ll sue, but it’s a suit that they should never be able to win. They should never ever be able to win. So now, I’d like to ask Secretary Azar to provide some more details as to the action. And then, Seema, I’d like to have you come up and say a few words. And great job. We appreciate it. Thank you.
Thank you very much. I’ve been watching the hearing on OAN and saw it on a couple of other great networks, but I really appreciate being asked to speak. I’m in the Oval Office right now, and it’s very interesting to see what’s going on. This was an election that we won easily. We won it by a lot. Big energy.
An official was on this morning on a important show and said, “There’s no way Trump didn’t win Pennsylvania, because the energy industry was all for him. I saw with my eyes what happened,” and he told me horror stories, absolute horror stories. So this was, very sad to say it, this election was rigged and we can’t let that happen. We can’t let it happen for our country. And this election has to be turned around, because we won Pennsylvania by a lot. And we won all of these swing States by a lot.
Anybody watching television the night of the election was saying, “Wow.” I was called by the biggest political people. Congratulations, sir, on a big win. And all of a sudden ballots were dumped all over the place, and a lot of horrible things happened and everybody in that room, I want to thank all of the people that signed affidavits and all of the speakers. You fantastic people. You’re great Patriots.
I want to thank the senators for being there. And it’s so important, day before Thanksgiving, it really represents somebody. Between the voter suppression and all of the horrible things that happened to poll watchers. We have poll watcher affidavits piled up to the ceiling. They’re all over. They were treated horribly all over, all of these swing States, I mean virtually all of the swing States, and many other things were happening that were horrible, just horrible.
But the poll watchers weren’t allowed to watch. They were in many cases, whisked out of the room. Not only into pens that were 20, 30, 40, 60, 100 feet away where you couldn’t even see. They were using binoculars. People are reporting that they had to use binoculars, and that didn’t work. If you were a Republican poll watcher, you were treated like a dog and the Democrats had no problem, but they were rough.
They were literally pushed out, and it was rough tactics. This is what happened here. This is not the United States of America what happened, and I think everybody knows that. That’s why you’re there, and that’s why you’re so vehement about it. We have many, many cases, many, many cases of people walking in, an elderly woman walks in looking forward to voting November 3rd and says, “Oh good. Where would I go about voting?”
“I’m sorry. You’ve already voted. Your ballot is in.” They said, “No, I didn’t vote. I didn’t vote.”
“No, your ballot is in. You’ve already voted.” In all cases for Biden, by the way. She said, “No, no, I want to vote.”
Nope, your ballot is in.” And then they give her a provisional ballot to sign, which goes nowhere. It’s a disgrace that this is happening to our country. We won this election by a lot. We got 74 million votes. And if you would have said 74 million votes the day before the election, every single professional in the business would have said, there’s no way of beating that. We got 11 million votes more than we had four years before in 2016, and we got many votes more than Ronald Reagan had when he won 49 States, that nobody would’ve said we even had a chance of losing. And all you had to do is take a look at the numbers at 10 o’clock in the evening when everybody thought the election was virtually over, and then very weird things happened.
But they’re not weird to professionals, and they’re not weird to Dominion and other people that operate machines. And they’re not weird to the people that handle the ballots where they were flooding the market. People were getting two and three and four ballots in their home. People that were dead were signing up for ballots. Not only were they coming in and putting in a ballot, but dead people were requesting ballots and they were dead for years, and they were requesting ballots.
The whole world is watching us. The whole world is watching the United States of America and we can’t let them get away with it. And we have judges that are afraid to make a decision. We have judges that don’t want to do the same thing. A very good lawyer said, “Well, sir, I mean, that’s a big statement for a judge to overthrow an election.” I said, “Really? If he got hundreds of thousands of votes more than he was entitled to get through all of the things that I’m listening to right now, and you’re just covering a few of them, we have hundreds and hundreds of affidavits of stories that are even worse than the stories I’m hearing. Why wouldn’t they overturn an election?”
Certainly overturn it in your state, because we have other States that are just as bad. If you look at Michigan with Detroit, you look at the things that happened in Detroit where you have a voter, but you have more votes than you have voters. You take a look at Detroit, Michigan, you have more votes than you have voters. Then you have two people that don’t want to certify. They don’t want to certify, and they’re harassed violently. And they turned off the cameras during the harassment for two hours. Then they said, “Wow.” And they were afraid and they voted. Then they went back to sign and they couldn’t do it because they said, “We can’t do it because this is corrupt. This is horrible what’s taken place.”
Think of it, more votes than you have voters, but that was the least of it. They have things that were as bad as that. And this is going on all over, all over. We’re doing very well in a lot of States, a lot of good things are happening in Georgia. We’re getting little help from government, but a lot of good things happening in Georgia, Wisconsin, and Michigan. They’re seeing what happened in Detroit. And we sure are looking at what’s happening in Pennsylvania and Philadelphia.
What happened in Philadelphia, they keep the poll watches not only in pens, but they keep them out of the building. And the only reason they got back into the building was they got a court order. Then the definition of back into the building was very far away where they couldn’t see anything. And they talk about closed circuit television, except you couldn’t see it because the picture was so unclear you didn’t even know what they were doing. They could have been playing a baseball game. So it’s a very sad thing for our country to have this.
They have to turn over the results. It would be easy for me to say, “Oh, let’s worry about four years from now.” No, this election was lost by the Democrats. They cheated. It was a fraudulent election. They flooded the market. The defrauded everybody with ballots.
I just want to thank everybody for being there. You’re doing a tremendous service. This is a very important moment in the history of our country, and you’re doing a tremendous service to our country, and don’t worry about bravery because the people that talk the most, they’re not the ones you have to worry about. And these are all talkers, they intimidate, but these are not people that you’re going to ultimately have to … They push you around. They pushed our poll workers out. Our poll watchers were pushed out of the building. Some got back in, they were put into pens, but these are not people …
Don’t be intimidated by these people, but they’re bad people. They’re horrible people, and they’re people that don’t love our country. So we don’t have to worry about four years right now, we have to worry about what happened on November 3rd and previous to November 3rd. And by the way, after November 3rd, when people put votes in and they put them in illegally, they put them in after the polls closed. And one of our great Supreme Court Justices made mention of that. And I can’t imagine that any Justice or anybody looking at it could be thrilled when they vote after the election is over.
So I want to thank everybody very much for being there. I want to thank the state Senate, respected people, tremendous people. And you’re doing a tremendous service for our country. If something was done wrong, if this election was won fraudulently, and that’s what happened, it was a fraud. And we’re talking about, very importantly, many more ballots, many more votes than the number we need.
In other words, if we needed 50,000 votes, we’re not talking about we found nine dead people that voted. Of course, there were many more than that, numbers that nobody even believes. No, we’re talking about numbers that are far in excess of the 50,000. Far in excess in another state where we lost by 10,000, and they went absolutely wild because we got far more votes than they thought possible. And they’ve just stepped on the gas. And they got caught, just like they got caught spying on my campaign. They got caught exactly. They got caught doing this.
So I really appreciate it. And the country appreciates it, and we have to turn the election over because there’s no doubt. We have all the evidence. We have all the affidavits. We have everything. All we need is to have some judge listen to it properly without having a political opinion or having another kind of a problem, because we have everything. And by the way, the evidence is pouring in now as we speak.
And I want to thank Rudy Giuliani for having the courage to do this. There were a lot of lawyers that backed down because they were being screamed at. Rudy is the greatest Mayor in the history of New York, and there’s a reason. He’s got great courage and he doesn’t care. He wants to do what’s right. And I told him the other day, “Rudy, you were the greatest Mayor in the history of New York,” and you see what happened to New York without Rudy. “You were the greatest Mayor, but this is more important. What you are doing now is far more important than being a great Mayor of the city of New York and being its greatest Mayor by far.” By the way, by far. “This is going to be your crowning achievement, because you’re saving our country.” Thank you all very much. Thank you.
Well, thank you. Very much. Thank you. Thank you very much. So many doctors, so many fantastic doctors and nurses. That’s great. Please sit down. I’m thrilled to be here in North Carolina with so many of these unbelievable professionals, doctors, nurses, and amazing healthcare workers. Really an honor of mine. As the world witness during our battle against the China virus, America has the greatest medical professionals anywhere on earth. Today, I will lay out my vision for a healthcare system that puts patients first, families first, and perhaps most importantly for all of us, America first. Thank you. Thank you.
Under the America First Healthcare plan, we will ensure the highest standard of care anywhere in the world, cutting edge treatment, state-of-the-art medicine, groundbreaking cures, and true health security for you and your loved ones, and we will do it rapidly, and it’s in very good order, and some of it has already been implemented. In short, we’re delivering better care with more choice and a much lower cost and working to ensure Americans have access to the care they need. My plan expands affordable insurance options, reduces the cost of prescription drugs, will end surprise medical billing, increases fairness through price transparency, streamlines bureaucracy, accelerates innovation, strongly protects Medicare and always protects patients with pre-existing conditions.
By contrast, the Democrat Party is pushing a socialist nightmare. Their plans will result in rationing care, denying choice, putting Americans on wait lists, driving the best doctors out of medicine permanently, and delaying life saving cures. Over 130 Democrats in Congress including Senator Harris have endorsed legislation to outlaw the private health plans of 180 million Americans. On top of it all, former Vice President Joe Biden promised to give free federal healthcare to anyone in the world who illegally crosses our border. His plan to provide government healthcare to illegal immigrants would bankrupt our healthcare system, collapse our hospitals and destroy Medicare, while bringing in millions and millions of people lured into our country. As long as I am president, we will save go to our borders and our seniors.
We are pleased to be joined today by Secretary of Health and Human Services, done a great job, Alex Azar. Alex. Hi, Alex. Thank you. And very importantly, CMS Administrator Seema Verma. Thank you, Seema. A great friend of mine and a great friend of healthcare, frankly, Senator Bill Cassidy. Bill. Hi, Bill. Representatives Michael Burgess and Greg Murphy, so instrumental. Thank you. Thank you, folks. And many, many state and local officials are here with us. Thank you very much. Since the plague arrived from China, we have seen our doctors, nurses, first responders, scientists, and researchers at their very best. We slashed red tape to accelerate the development of life-saving treatments, reducing the fatality rate by 85% since April. Incredible. Overall, Europe has seen an almost 50% greater excess mortality rate than that of the United States, and despite Europe’s punishing lockdowns, they’re now seeing a huge surge, very sadly, in cases. Under Operation Warp Speed, my administration is developing a vaccine in record time. It will be distributed before the end of the year and may be quite a bit sooner than that. Four vaccines are now in the final stage of clinical trials. It’s just about at the end. A lot of things are looking very good. It is the most ambitious vaccine program in U.S. history, probably in any history. The vaccines are being mass-produced in advance so they can be delivered within 24 hours of approval. The vaccine will be safe, and it will be effective. It will defeat the virus, and it will end the pandemic. The economy will surge to record highs. You see what’s happening with the numbers that are coming out. Records all. Normal life will fully resume. That will be great. And next year will be one of the greatest years in the history of our country from an economic and hopefully in many other ways. When I was elected, I inherited a thing called Obamacare. Has anybody heard of Obamacare? It was terrible. That’s the way I feel too. It was terrible and very, very expensive. Hurt a lot of people. 
Premiums were too high. Deductibles were a disaster. Patients had no choice. You couldn’t keep your doctor, but by far, the worst part of Obamacare was this thing called the individual mandate.
As part of our largest ever tax cut in the history of the United States, we put in a provision to kill this worst provision of Obamacare, the individual mandate. It was a disaster, and it was really the essence of Obamacare. It made you pay a tremendous amount of money in order to not have to pay for health insurance. Think of that. You had to pay a fortune in order not to have health insurance. It was really terrible and so unfair to so many. Destroyed families. We were able to terminate the individual mandate but kept the provision protecting patients with pre-existing conditions. That particular law would never have been signed if it were otherwise. Obamacare is no longer Obamacare as we worked on it and managed it very well. We stabilized it, got premiums down very substantially. That was Alex and that was Seema, And you did a fantastic job. But it’s still unacceptable to me because it’s too expensive and doesn’t really do the job as well as we could have.
So what we have now is a much better plan. It is no longer Obamacare, because we’ve gotten rid of the worst part of it, the individual mandate, and made it much less expensive. A lot of that was through good management. We manage it properly. We have tremendous people working on it. Simultaneously with all of this, we are joining in a lawsuit to end this ill-conceived plan. I’m in court to terminate this really, really terrible situation. If we win, we will have a better and less expensive plan that will always protect individuals with pre-existing conditions. If we lose, what we have now is better than the original version of Obamacare by far. Much better. Much better. Again, we will always protect patients with pre-existing conditions.
So today, I’m laying out my vision for the future of American healthcare with the America First Healthcare plan. As we restore America to full strength, the first healthcare plan will be a core part of our national renewal. In a few moments, I’ll sign an executive order outlining the three pillars of my plan and directing my administration to implement these critical reforms. The first pillar of my plan is more choice, more choice for American patients. Very important. The last administration severely restricted consumer choice through the greatest healthcare lie ever told. If you like your plan, you can keep your plan. If you like your doctor, you can keep your doctor. You remember that? 28 times that was stated by our president, but it turned out not to be true. When I took office, more than 50% of counties nationwide offered plans from only a single insurance company on the individual market. Starting next month, more than 90% of the counties will have multiple options to choose from, which is really some difference. Under our plan, you’ll have the freedom to shop for the option that is right for you and your family. These options include new affordable choices that cost up to 60% less than Obamacare. Think of that. 60% less. For example, we’re opening up short-term plans that are much cheaper than Obamacare, and that can be customized to your individual needs. We’re also offering association health plans that allow small businesses to pull together and offer more affordable policies to their employees. These are tremendous options that didn’t exist before we came into office. And through a massive expansion of health reimbursement arrangements, millions of Americans would be able to shop for a plan of their choice on the individual market and then have their employer cover the full cost. Furthermore, I’ll work to make individual healthcare premiums fully tax deductible. That will be a big difference.
Through these another reforms, we’re putting American patients back in charge, and we’re putting them first. My plan will also revolutionize access to telehealth. It’s something that really has taken off during the pandemic. It’s taken off like a rocket ship. It’s increased close to 9000%. Nobody was using it, and when we had the pandemic, they started using it. Then they started really liking it. Then it started getting better and better. Bill, now it’s up to 9000%. who would think that right? One of the few things that we got from this disaster that came from China. When we rapidly expanded its availability for Medicare beneficiaries during the pandemic, the number of telehealth users increased so incredibly to 14, 000 a week. It was a 1.7 million. It was increasing at levels that nobody’s ever seen before in just about any kind of a program. This is the future of healthcare. We will ensure all Americans have the freedom to consult with doctors from the safety and convenience of their homes.
The second pillar of my plan is lower costs for families and seniors. Lower costs. For years, patients have been inaudible.
For years, patients have been shocked to receive unexpected bills for thousands of dollars in medical services they never agreed to. The first America First Healthcare Plan bans this deeply unfair practice. We will end surprise medical billing. The days of ripping off American patients are over. My plan also includes the vital reform of price transparency. Price transparency is great for the great doctors, the good doctors, and it’s also great for the great and good hospitals. That’s where it’s really fantastic for them too, in addition, obviously, to the patients. For the first time ever, we will create true competition in healthcare. Both hospitals and insurance companies will be required to post all of their prices online. This transformative policy will allow you to see your exact out-of-pocket cost before you go for treatment, making it easy to shop for the best price. Costs will come way down. Some people think this will have a bigger impact than healthcare itself. It’s a tremendous thing. No matter 
where it’s been put, it’s been an incredible service and it’s worked miracles. It’s been brilliant for patients.
Next, I’m taking on the lobbyists and the special interests to lower the price of prescription drugs. For years, American patients have subsidized socialist nations. You know that. We talk about it all the time. Congress, they come over, we’ve been talking about it for a long time. They’ve been talking about it for years. They know the problem, but we’ve been subsidizing socialist nations and others by paying the highest drug prices in the world by far, and yet we’re the largest purchaser of prescription drugs by far. This is all while countries got away with paying so much less, so much less, incredibly less. Under my plan, we will pay the exact same price as other countries. That’s at the lowest level. We will be matching the lowest price with what’s now many times the highest price, and we won’t pay a penny more.
What will happen is the lower prices will come up a little bit, but you’ll get discounts of 40, 50, 60, 80, 90, who knows, percent, numbers that you wouldn’t even believe. We were the only ones in 52 years to bring drug prices down. The last year, they went down, as you know, but that was before this. They went down just a little bit, but just a little bit was the only time in 52 years. Now they’re going to go down massively. Favored nations, this will lead to a very large savings for American families and plummeting drug prices. They will plummet. The Obama Biden administration caved to big pharma and allowed drug prices to explode.
The only bad part about this transaction is that they are advertising like crazy, “Make sure you don’t elect Trump.” All it means is that your drug prices are coming down. It’s incredible. They have unlimited money for ads, but they’re taking ads, and every time you see an ad, just think that your drug prices are coming down. I now understand why other politicians wouldn’t do it, because it was a very easy thing to do, but it took a certain amount of courage, I will say that.
It means that I’m taking on big pharma like never before. Nobody’s done this before. They understood favored nations. Favored nations is you get the best prices, the lowest, no matter where it is anywhere in the world. If Germany is paying 25 cents for a pill and we’re paying two and a half dollars for the same exact pill from the same place, same plant, same genius scientist, same everything, same laboratory, we get the same prices they do. You’re talking about numbers that are unthinkable, a favored nations clause. It’s really something. They’re attacking me viciously, we know that. They’re attacking me really because I’m fighting for you, but it’s worth the fight. It’s worth the fight. I think people are going to [crosstalk 00:16:26]. I can say this, I think. I don’t think it’s confidential. Our Chief of Staff is here, Mark Meadows, from a very great state known as North Carolina, that happens to come from North Carolina. That’s good stuff. He wanted to be here for that reason probably more than even 
listening to this because you’ve heard it, but Mark will tell you that big pharma is calling and negotiating and negotiating and they want to make a deal. There’s a deal somewhere, but it’s something that’s taking place right now. They’re negotiating, but this is where we are. They’re negotiating for one reason. Before that, they wouldn’t even think about negotiating with any other administration. They cannot believe this is actually happening. If we can make a deal, we will, but Mark, you’re negotiating literally as we speak, right? If he doesn’t make a great deal, we’ll blame North Carolina, okay? That’s great. No, Mark is a real pro at this, understands a complicated business, but he understands it very well.
Today, my administration’s taken action on every piece of the executive order I signed on prescription drug importation in July. The American people pay an average of over, listen to this, three times more for medicine than Canadians. You can be two feet away on each side of the border, three times more. That’s the way it is. Canada is far more than many other countries. My plan will allow states, wholesalers and pharmacies to do something career politicians have promised for decades because it was very simple as an idea, but never delivered. We will finally allow the safe and legal importation of prescription drugs from Canada. This means …
This means a state or whatever can go to Canada and buy your drugs for a fraction of the price that they’re charging right now. Massive numbers of tremendous numbers. Florida wants to do it, colorado wants to do it, many states want to do it, and they will be doing it, but that’s still higher than the favored nations. As favored nations kicks in, I think that probably beats everybody, no matter where you are, no matter where you’re trying to buy. This will be a game changer for American seniors. By allowing you to do this through Canada, we’re doing it very, very quickly. It goes very fast. The new rule goes into effect as of today. Is that fast enough? I think so. What are your thoughts?
My Congressman. The America First Healthcare Plan includes another historic provision to benefit our great seniors. Under my plan, 33 million Medicare beneficiaries will soon receive a card in the mail containing $200 that they can use to help pay for prescription drugs. Nobody’s seen this before. These cards are incredible. The cards will be mailed out in coming weeks. I will always take care of our wonderful senior citizens. Joe Biden won’t be doing this. This is also partially because of the tremendous money that we’re going to be saving with the favored nations and various other things that we’ve done.
We’ve approved more affordable generic drugs than any administration in history. I had no idea, but I have had many doctors, who I have great respect for by the way, come to me and I said, “Well, what’s the difference between this and this?” One is a very well-known name. One is just a pill in a bottle with no tag on it. They said, “Zero.” I said, “It must be a little bit better, right, the name?” Zero. Yet, the name brand will cost 5 and even 10 times more money than the generic. We’ve approved more generic drugs than anybody at a rapid pace too. We’re also requiring that low-income patients receive the benefits of government discounts, so on insulin and the EpiPen, that is a big deal. That is a big deal. Insulin is one of the most common medicines for seniors.
This is something that Seema worked on so hard. Insulin prices soared under the last administration like you wouldn’t believe, right Seema? Under my plan, hundreds of thousands of Medicare patients will see their insulin cost capped at just $35 a month. That’s a 66% cost reduction. This feature will be available on over 1,600 Medicare plans that seniors can begin signing up for starting October 1st. Under certain circumstances, Seema, it’s literally almost free. This insulin, which they were just ripping you on, is close to being free, even lower than the $35 a month. You did a fantastic job on that. Thank you very much. Seema would come to my office, “Sir, I have something so exciting.” She worked on that for a long time and getting that done, but it is exciting. If you need insulin, a lot of people were going without it. They just couldn’t afford it. Now they can definitely afford it.
We’ll accelerate our relentless effort to save seniors money on their premiums. Since I took office, we reduced Medicare part D premiums by 12%. Medicare advantage premiums are also down dramatically, a 44% reduction in North Carolina. That’s good. 43% lower in Pennsylvania, and a 54% lower price in Michigan. That’s something. We have them all over the country. All over the country, there are numbers just like that. We’ll ensure that all seniors pay the same price for the same service, whether at a hospital, a surgery center or a doctor’s office. This will save seniors billions and billions of dollars a year. We’re talking about the billions. It also saves our government a lot of money, but we’ll save our senior citizens billions of dollars a year, a fantastic job.
We’re putting into place, the largest package of saving for seniors of any administration in history. No administration is even close to what we’ve done. I’ve said it, having to do much more than even healthcare, there’s no administration in its first three and a half years that’s done anywhere close to the things we’ve done. I never even get criticized for saying it. That must mean it’s true, right, my Congressman or my great Senator? Under the Democrat plan, costs will skyrocket. Our seniors will lose the benefits they paid into their entire … I mean, they’ve been paying for their entire lives, tremendous amounts of money, all to finance socialism and open borders. I mean, we’re just helping other countries, countries that aren’t even friends of ours, but we help our friends and we help socialism all over the world. We hurt our people and we’re not doing that any longer.
As long as I’m president, no one will lay a hand on your Medicare. Your Medicare is going to be safe and it’s going to be solid.
The final pillar of America First Healthcare Plan is better care, that’s better care for American patients. The historic action I’m taking today includes the first ever executive order to affirm it is the official policy of the United States government to protect patients with pre-existing conditions. So we’re making that official. We’re putting it down in a stamp because our opponents, the Democrats, like to constantly talk about it. And yet pre-existing conditions are much safer with us than they are with them and now we have it affirmed. This is affirmed, signed and done. So we can put that to rest. They’ll say it anyway, because it’s disinformation, disinformation. Same thing goes for Social Security. You remember during the last campaign four years ago, they kept saying I was going to destroy Social Security. I made Social Security stronger, better. They will be the ones that destroy Social Security because they’re going to destroy our country. They will destroy our economy. So Social Security, nothing 
happened. I keep saying whatever happened to Social Security? Remember, he is going to immediately attack. No, just the opposite. Your Social Security is 100% with me, but it’s not 100% with them.
Any healthcare reform legislation that comes to my desk from Congress must protect the pre-existing conditions or I won’t sign it. And I made that pledge and I made that pledge last week, but now I’m making it in writing. We’re putting it down and we have it signed and we have it sealed.
The new Democrat lie is that they will cover pre-existing conditions, but in truth, the socialist takeover economic shutdowns that they talk about, if you look at this state, frankly, where you have Democrat governors, Democrat leaders, those states are in very, very bad shape with all of their shutdowns. Pennsylvania, you take a look at what’s going on in Pennsylvania with the shutdown. We just won a big court case where a judge, a great federal judge ruled it unconstitutional what they were doing. They’re hurting people. There’s damage on the other side of a shutdown, people don’t realize with suicides and drug use and all of the alcohol. It’s a terrible thing that happens. And Michigan’s another state, their shut down is very severe.
By the way, on November 4th, I’m sure everything will be open. They’ll announce on the evening of November 3rd that we’re opening up unless these unsolicited ballots don’t come in for weeks and weeks and weeks. They want them to come in over a long period of time. It’s going to be a very interesting day. November 3rd, it’s going to be a very interesting day. And coverage for illegal immigrants will collapse. Our economy will collapse under their system and make your healthcare system totally insolvent. You know that as great doctors and people that do this, you know that what they’re doing is socialized medicine and it’s not acceptable. It’s going to be a disaster in terms of quality and cost. It’ll ruin our country. Under their plan, you’ll lose your doctor again and you will lose your coverage. You will lose everything having to do with what we’re talking about on my watch. I will never let the radical left take away your healthcare. You’ll always have healthcare.
The America First Healthcare Plan will deliver another long awaited reform. We will put you in control of your own medical records. We’ll require doctors to make your records available electronically and you will own them and you’ll control them and they will be portable. And you’ll be able to work seamlessly with all of your medical providers. It’ll make your life a lot easier, much, much easier. The previous administration, led by sleepy Joe Biden, spent $35 billion and failed to get it done. You know that, $35 billion. Where they failed, we are delivering to give critically ill patients access to lifesaving treatment.
I also signed Right to Try. You know what Right to Try is. To me, Right to Try is so great. It’s so great. And what I think I’d like to do, I’ll do it really quickly. I’m going to run through just a quick list of accomplishments that we’ve done. And we’ve really become the healthcare party, the Republican party. And nobody knows that. The news doesn’t talk about it. But I’m going to just say, and it’s a list of things that we’ve done and it’ll go quickly. But I just thought I’d take it out and say I’d like to read that to the audience of professionals today. And this is just a partial list. We repealed the individual mandate, eliminated Obamacare’s health insurance, medical device and the Cadillac taxes. That’s a big deal.
People forget all of this. They said, “I wonder who did that? Could it have been Joe Biden?” He doesn’t know what it is. Expanded association health plans, increased availability of short term limited duration plans, expanded health reimbursement arrangements, big deal, lowered prescription drug prices. And you will see them at a level that you’ll never see this again. They will go down so low. And as I said, we had the largest annual decrease, we had the only decrease over a 52 year period. More generic prescriptions approved, saving America an estimated $2.6 billion in the first 18 months of the administration alone. So in 18 months we saved $2.6 billion with generic drugs. Signed four executive orders to lower prescription drug prices, signed legislation banning pharmacy gag clauses. Does that make sense to you?
I mean, what people were under or what even the pharmacists had to do was it made them… It was embarrassing to them. Took executive action to ensure price transparency in healthcare. That will be one of the biggest things and most people have no idea what it means. I said some people said that’s bigger than healthcare. Required hospitals to post standard prices on the internet, modernized and strengthened Medicare with more options, more benefits and lower premiums substantially. Improved kidney care, such a big deal, with more transplants and better treatment. Kidney care is so tough for people with a problem.
Very substantially lowered the price of insulin, as we said, for our seniors. Invested in advances in generic therapy for sickle cell disease, big thing, big thing, big, big thing.
Launched a $500 million initiative to find cures for childhood cancer, it’s $500 million. Combatted drug demand. We really went very, very strong on drug demand and the opioid crisis with expanded access to medication assisted treatment and lifesaving nalaxone, nalaxone.
Opioid prescribed decrease by over 35%. So if you look at the opioid, obviously, horror show, it decreased by over 35% since January of 2017. We’ve worked very, very hard on that. Launched findtreatment.gov to connect those with substance abuse disorder to treatment. We have an incredible situation, it’s findtreatment.gov. Passed Right to Try to give critically ill patients access to lifesaving cures, where it hasn’t been approved yet by the FDA. Incredible. And by the way, you know what that has meant. We have had some examples of success on Right to Try that have been amazing. Launched an initiative to end AIDS, HIV/AIDS in America. We think in six years, it will be largely eradicated. Who would have ever thought? And this could have started two years before I got there, but they chose not to do it. But we have, and we’ve launched the initiative. It’s into its almost fourth year. And at the time we did it, it was going to be 10 years, at the end of 10 years. Now, six years, we’re already down to six. It will largely eradicate AIDS, HIV/AIDS in America. Who would’ve thought that? It’s incredible.
When I first I heard about it, I said, “Why wouldn’t they have started it early?” But they didn’t. Expanded access to telehealth, especially in rural and underserved areas, telehealth. Signed historic VA Choice legislation. That’s a big deal. That’s a big deal. It’s the real choice, not the weak choice, the very, very weak, the choice that didn’t mean anything. But it’s been a tremendous success. And we just got a 91% approval rating from our vets, the highest we’ve ever had by a lot.
And we also, while we’re at it, we signed the accountability, VA Accountability. That’s where people don’t love our vets, if they don’t take care of our vets, you couldn’t do anything about it. They’d have to live in hell with these vets, with the people that we’re supposed to be taking care of. And we have a thing called VA Accountability. They’re accountable now. If they don’t treat our vets great, if they don’t take care of our vets, if they don’t love our vets, our country, we can fire them. We can say, “You’re fired.” We can fire them. VA Accountability.
That’s a big thing. So VA Choice, VA Accountability. Took executive action to prevent veteran suicide and launched the 24 hour veteran hotline for suicide. And it’s really working. And signed the largest ever increase in childcare development block grants. Those are some of the things that we’ve done. We’ve done actually a lot more than that, but we have to get back to business here, right? Those are things that we’ve done. And nobody has any idea when you look at a list like that, Democrats have never done anything like that.
Under the Democrat socialist agenda, an avalanche of regulation would extinguish the flame of excellence that makes America the center of scientific discovery, groundbreaking treatment, and lifesaving cures. In our all-out war against the virus, we’ve lifted bureaucratic barriers and marshaled America’s scientific, industrial and technical brilliance. And we do have total brilliance, some of it’s in this room, by the way, in case you don’t know. I will apply a… brilliant, some of the people, right, Bill? Some incredible people in this room. I’ll apply the same determination to accelerate medical breakthrough…
… apply the same determination to accelerate medical breakthroughs in all areas, including for Alzheimer’s, diabetes, generic treatments for Sickle Cell disease, early detection of cancer, and much, much more. Already to improve care for Americans with kidney disease, we enabled patients to receive at-home dialysis and we’re investing in the creation of an artificial kidney. We’re getting very close. And we introduced critical incentives to make more kidneys available for transplant; a change that will save tens of thousands of lives. What people have to go through with kidney disease is incredible. It’s incredible. They work so hard. I said, “How do they do?”
They can live a long life, but it’s so much work to do it. That they literally, one doctor told me, that they die of hard work. It’s such a job to go and I guess, dialysis, et cetera. It’s such a hard job that they die of … Literally, they die of just hard work. It’s incredible what we’ve done there and what we’re doing. And especially with some of the research that’s been done, what we’re coming up with. You’ll be seeing it very soon, I believe. As we invest in the future, we will permanently bring our medical supply chains back home. We will produce our medical supplies, pharmaceuticals, and treatments right here in the United States, right here in North Carolina.
We are going to bring a lot of business too. If you remember, Puerto Rico used to do it, and then they brought tax legislation that destroyed that whole thing. They all left, but they were very happy in Puerto Rico. We’re going to bring it back to Puerto Rico and many of our states that will be doing it. And North Carolina I see is on the list as being a very top one, so we’re going to bring it back to North Carolina and the country. And we’ll reverse the disastrous and heartless decision Joe Biden made in 1996 to shut down the pharmaceutical industry in Puerto Rico. It took place in 1996, Biden shut down the whole Puerto Rico industry. This was a very good industry. They were doing a fantastic job. And one day it was just literally gone.
Biden shut it down with what he did with taxes. And it was a disgrace, but we will bring it back. Under our leadership, American medicine will make the biggest breakthroughs, the largest leaps, the most exciting strides and the most outstanding discoveries. Before I sign a historic executive order implementing this ambitious agenda, let me introduce two Americans, great Americans who will benefit from our policies. Julia [Stathopoulos 00:38:54] was born with Freeman-Sheldon syndrome, which is tough, an extremely rare muscle and bone disorder. Under the previous administration, Julia’s family saw their premiums on the individual market skyrocket to $3,000 a month and more.
Her parents had to go without health insurance just to afford coverage for their children. Since I was elected, their family’s premiums have been slashed by more than 40% and we’re going down further. Everyone is now covered and Julia always has access to the doctors she needs. Julia, we are with you. I don’t know where you are, Julia. Where is Julia? Wow. Thank you. Thank you. You look great, Julia. Thank you. That’s great. Thank you, Julia. It’s a great story, but we’re inspired by your courage. Thank you very much. Also with us is Sharon [Leader 00:03:58], a financial planner from nearby Concord. After spending less than 24 hours in the hospital and receiving a few basic tests, she received surprise bills that added up to $4,000. That’s a lot of money. Despite having insurance.
Sharon, those days will soon be over because we’ll end surprise medical billing once and for all. Where is Sharon? Hi, Sharon. It’s why they call it surprise billings, she got home and she was surprised. They sent you the bill, you opened it up. You thought it was going to be $25. And it was a little more than that, right? That’s great. Well, we’re taking care of it. Thank you very much here. We’re standing up for our people. We’re standing up to special interests. We’re taking on the powerful lobbyists. We’re stopping the radical socialists and communists, to be honest with you. I think we’ve gone a little bit above socialism or below it, if you want to call it that way.
But we are standing up to both, whichever one you want to choose. And we are fighting for the incredible people of North Carolina, incredible people. People I love. I love the people. We named it … As you know, my grandchild is named, Carolina. Beautiful Carolina, the most beautiful child. But we’re providing better care and more choice at a lower cost, substantially lower cost. We’re delivering a healthier, safer, brighter, and more prosperous future for every citizen in our magnificent land, because we are proudly putting America first. It hasn’t happened for a long time. On behalf of all Americans, I will now sign the executive order. I want to thank you all for being here. God bless you, God Bless North Carolina and God bless America. Thank you very much. Thank you.
That’s a lot of work. That’s great. Hi, Julia.
Wow. Thank you very much. Thank you. I feel so guilty you’re waiting out here in the rain. They gave me a hat. I said, “You know, they’ve been waiting out here for hours. I shouldn’t put on a hat,” right? They even said, “Sir, we have the car, it’s going to take you from the beautiful Air Force One,” isn’t that a beauty? But, “They’re going to take you from Air Force One.” I said, “I got to walk it.” I mean, these people are tough. They’re from Lansing, they’re from Michigan, I got to walk it. I got to walk it. Don’t give me the umbrella, I’m soaking wet already.
But hello Lansing. Hello, Michigan. This was the scene of a great victory. Remember that? Four years ago, “Donald Trump has won the state of Michigan.” That was big. It hadn’t been done in decades, but I don’t know if you saw the poll that just came out, we’re up three in Michigan. I think we’re up a lot more, you know, they give you the fake polls. I think we’re up a lot more. We’re going to have a great red wave people that want to go out and vote. They want to go out and they want to touch. They want to vote. It’s a great red wave. It’s happening in Florida. We’re up in Florida, up four, up four.
I’m watching these guys, they way talk, “The poll, oh,” they’re down 25 in Michigan. I said, “No, we’re going to win Michigan.” No. No, I kid when I say 25, but they put numbers, they’re called suppression, suppression polls. They make you like, feel badly, so you said to your wife, or you said your husband, “Darling, let’s go out to dinner and then we’ll come back. We love our president, but you know, the polls say he can win.” Well, right now we’re leading in almost everywhere. The real … We’re leading almost everywhere
Now I’ve got to say, I’m working my ass off here. Sleepy, Joe, the guy goes to his basement. He’s got another lid. He goes to the basement, the lid, right? That’s the garbage can, they put a lid on you. No, yesterday we had three big ones, really big. In Pennsylvania was incredible. The crowds were incredible, like this, they’re all packed. They got people outside, I see people in the streets. It’s crazy.
I always say to my people, “Why don’t you just get a bigger airport? Get a bigger …” Well, these are better than the arenas because our rallies are bigger than they’ve ever been, and the arenas, even if it’s 18,000 people, we’ve had 40, 45 50. You can’t hold them. And you know what’s nice? You get out of the plane, you say a few words, you go back to the plane, you say, “Bye-bye. Vote for me.” But that’s actually what Democrats do. They say, “Vote for me,” and they’re lovely to you for a few months before the election, and after the election, it’s … They’re gone.
Nobody’s done for Michigan what I have, you have car plants being built all over, and you didn’t have a plan built in 42 years. You have them all over. I tell Japan, I tell Germany, “No, we’re not interested, go and build plants,” and I always suggest to Michigan because I have to tell you, I think of cars, I think of Michigan.
When I got the Man of the Year, I got Man of the Year at Michigan, a long time ago, like 12 years ago, nothing to do with politics. They wrote, “Man of the Year.” I came here and I gave a big lecture on the fact, I said, “Mexico is stealing your plants. They’re going to Canada, they going to …” you lost 32% of your car production. I said, “What the hell is going on?” It turned out to be quite a controversial acceptance, but I felt that, it’s probably the number one reason that I’m standing here because of trade and have we turned that around.
Seven days from now, we’re going to win the great state of Michigan, and we’re going to win four more years in the White House. By the way, there has never been a campaign …
There has never been a campaign, in the history of this country … First of all, there’s never been a movement like this, there’s never been. But there’s been a campaign, and we had the record. You know, the record was four years ago that has had more enthusiasm or bigger crowds than there’s ever been. Don’t forget, they may have a crowd that’s a big crowd the night before an election, you know? But not really. There’s never been. This is … Thank you. Thank you, that’s really nice.
A phrase, I really, I say, I don’t think they’ll find it because look at all of them back there. Look at them. Look, oh! Hello, John Roberts. He’s been very nice to us. John Roberts has been very nice to us. Thank you John. But John has never been a phrase, “We love you,” in the history of politics. I don’t care where you go and it happens, and I love you too. I do. I love you too. That’s why we’re here.
But there’s never been anything like this in terms of enthusiasm, in terms of crowds. I saw Obama this morning. He had a couple of cars, they’re honking their horn, and then I saw sleepy Joe, so he came out yesterday, right? And you’re going to see this. He came out yesterday and he made a speech and then they had a rip of off the stage because he had lost it because he’s gone.
Once again, Michigan is going to answer the call of history and show the world that sleepy Joe Biden, his dark money donors and his corrupt special interests, and by the way, there’s never been anything like this. He goes into a country and the family walks out with billions of dollars, millions and millions of dollars.
Then the press isn’t allowed to report. The press doesn’t report it. They don’t cover it. The New York Times, The Washington Post, they don’t cover it. CNN …
You know, I introduced the great justice of the Supreme court last night, right? They say, it’s the most important thing a president can do. I say maybe military, but regardless, we’ve rebuilt our military like nobody would ever believe. But you know what? It’s one of the most important … Especially because this turns the court, they had a whole thing, the most important thing in 50 years, and CNN and MSDNC didn’t cover, they didn’t cover it. They wouldn’t cover. They just couldn’t. Even though their ratings go through the roof. 60 Minutes had very good ratings the other night, a fake report, but the ratings go through the roof.
But they didn’t cover my introduction. Can you believe that? My introduction of a woman that’s going to be there hopefully for 50 years, as far as I’m concerned. And last night we did, we made history and we confirmed Amy Coney Barrett to the United States Supreme Court, and Justice Barrett will defend our rights, will defend our liberties and our God given freedom. She’s going to be fantastic and she’s a terrific person.
Joe Biden, Kamala, do you like Kamala? Do you like her to be your vice-president? I don’t know. If he gets elected, three weeks into his presidency, they’ll say, “Kamala, you’re ready? Let’s go.” That’s why they’re talking about the … That’s why they’re talking about the 25th amendment, right? Three weeks. Three weeks in, Joe’s shot, “Let’s go Kamala, are you get ready?” Most liberal person in the Senate.
She makes Bernie Sanders look like a serious conservative. This will not be … We can’t let it happen. This will not be the first woman president. You can have a woman president, but this will not be the first woman president. That’s a lot of cameras back there. That’s right.
They’re all screaming, Ivanka. You know, Ivanka? You know, she’s great. She just loves to … She’s out campaigning today, doing really well. But she could be very happy, her husband’s here, Jared Kushner, he’s making peace in the middle East. He’s here. Where’s Jared? Where’s Jared? We got to find him. He’s never around too much. He doesn’t want any accolades, but he’s done something nobody else has done, he’s leading peace in the middle East without blood. Find Jared. He doesn’t want to be outside, he’s Mr. Inside, but he’s smart.
But Ivanka she’d be very happy just being a home with the kids and we got her working, and you know who’s making a speech today? The first lady, she’s out in Pennsylvania. People love our first lady. Our first lady is doing a great job. I mean, she got the plague from China. So did I. So did Barron. Barron recovered in about 12 minutes. “How are you feeling Barron?” “Okay.” “What was the problem Barron?” “I don’t know, I didn’t think I had a problem.”
The doctor told me, “Sir, your son has tested positive.” I see him like 12 seconds later, “Doctor, how’s he doing?” “He’s he’s all better.” Doctor did you give him one of those miracle cures?” ” No, sir. He just recovered.” Hey, young kids have a very strong immune system. Nobody even knew it. Get your children back to school, get them back to school.
I mean your governor’s a disaster. They got to open up this state, and she’s got to keep her husband away from sailing and fishing. The only one that’s free in your state is her husband. No, it’s no good. That’s no good. You can’t do it. Joe Biden, Kamala Harris. Of course, she has it the reverse. She’s got the, “In the Harris …” And he actually said it didn’t he? “In the Harris-Biden.”
You know, I have a great vice president and we all do. I want to give him tremendous credit, but I will never say, “In the Pence-Trump administration,” I will never say that. But he says it. That’s because he doesn’t have any clue where he is. You saw that and the radical Democrats want to pack the Supreme Court with far left Justices who won’t shred our constitution, abolish the second amendment, terminate religious liberty, shield violent criminals, and regulate your economy into oblivion. You will have a depression.
If he gets in, he’s going to raise your taxes at a level that nobody’s ever seen. He is the first candidate I’ve ever seen who is running on a promise that, “I will raise your taxes.” I’ve never heard that one. I’ve been involved in followed and studied politics for a long time. He’ll be the first one. “I will raise your taxes massively.” It’s going to be the biggest tax increase in history. I’ve never heard of that one before, I like running against that guy.
This election is a matter of economic survival for Michigan. Look what I’ve done, we’ve all done together for this state. This state, you’re building cars again, and if your union leaders weren’t in the pockets of the Democrats, because we get the vote, but they got these guys that just … They come to the White House., They’re so nice to me, nice to me, but they go for the Democrats every time for a certain reason. Someday, we’ll talk about it. But the people, the workers, are for us. So the workers for me.
Biden’s plan to abolish the entire us oil industry, you saw that? Will cripple our nation and send us into an absolute deep depression. You see what he did with fracking? “There will be no fracking. There will be no …” No, he doesn’t say it that way. He goes, “There will be no fracking. There will be no fracking.” But he said it for like a year, and then he got to Pennsylvania where we’re leading, but we’re going to put it … See that big, beautiful screen. We’ll have it up there. It saves me a lot of words, that screen is great. It costs a fortune. We only bring it to very important location like Michigan.
But then you can hear it in his own words. You don’t say, “Oh, the president’s exaggerating.” No, he said, “No fracking, no fracking. No fracking.” Then he goes to Pennsylvania, a million jobs, fracking. It’s a big part of their economy. A big part of your economy from the standpoint of energy, right? And gas. How do you like the gasoline prices at $2, right? It’s amazing.
As they go up, you produce fewer and fewer cars. Well, I got you down to the lowest level, you are so lucky I’m President. I’m going to give another major tax cut after already having passed the largest tax cut in the history of our country. We were giving a very big middle income tax cut.
Joe Biden spent the last 47 years outsourcing your jobs, opening your borders and sacrificing American blood and treasure in endless ridiculous foreign wars in countries you’ve never even heard of for the most part. They’re all coming back. You know that? They’ve been coming back, but our soldiers are all coming back.
We’re all over the place. We’re all over that. We’re in places that even the top people in the country have never heard of these places. Biden was a cheerleader for NAFTA. You got killed by NAFTA. A catastrophe for the auto industry and for your state. Following NAFTA, one third of the auto jobs left and they went to Mexico and Canada, but they went to Mexico.
Biden, enthusiastically voted for China’s entry into the World Trade Organization fueling the rise of China on the backs of Michigan workers. What China has done, there has been nothing, nothing, nobody, no country, there has been no country that has ripped us off for 25 years, 30 years like China. Hundreds of billions of dollars a year flows into China and I put big fat, beautiful tariffs on China. We took in tens of billions of dollars. Nobody else did it.
And when they targeted our farmers, I told the farmers, “Don’t worry about it,” and we gave him 28 billion, which is the amount they were targeted. We don’t have too many farmers in this crowd. We gave him $28 billion, our farmers, everybody’s happy with that. You got about three farmers here, but you got a lot of manufacturers. Remember when …
… But you got a lot of manufacturers. Remember when Obama said there’ll be no more manufacturing? You’d need a magic wand? Well, we had 700,000 manufacturing jobs. You’d need a magic wand. Altogether, half of all auto manufacturing jobs in Michigan were wiped out, think of that. After the Biden-backed NAFTA and China disasters, China became powerful because of the World Trade Organization. It became powerful, a terrible, terrible thing for our country. And then Biden goes around saying, well, no, China’s good for us. No, no, no. They haven’t been.
How have they been? No, I don’t think so good. And then the plague on top of everything else, we got the plague sent in. He repeatedly tried to slash Medicare and Social Security. People didn’t even know. Decade after decade, Biden has twisted his knife into the back of Michigan workers, and workers all over the United States. You don’t have to take my word for it. We have Joe on tape. Please roll the tape.
A rising China is an incredibly positive development for not only China, but the United States and the rest of the world. A rising China is a positive, positive development. It is in our self-interest that China continue to prosper. We want to see China rise. China’s a great nation and we should hope for the continued expansion. China is not our enemy. We talk about China as our competitor, we should be helping. The idea that China is going to eat our lunch is bizarre. The idea they are our competition, they’re going to beat us is bizarre. They’re not bad folks, folks.

